A Guide for Mage 20th Anniversary Edition

2 Enlightened Grimoire
Credits
Written By: Charles Siegel
Developed By: Charles Siegel
Edited By: Charles Siegel
Art: Mage art packs and Creative Commons
Commercial Use license (with specific images listed as
no attribution necessary)
Special Thanks
I'd like to thank Secrets of the Masquerade for
suggesting that I do this project, Shane DeFreest for all
his support getting the templates working and
everything ready for release day. I'd also like to thank
my old gaming group, Liz Ruifrok, Jayne Sweet, and
Cori Taylor, for whom I prepared the original version
of this (as a spreadsheet!) to help our games run more
smoothly.
But most of all, I'd like to thank my wife, Celia Rae, for
putting up with me disappearing into this project, and
for all her help and encouragement
© 2018 White Wolf Entertainment AB. All rights reserved. Vampire:
The Masquerade®, World of Darkness®, Storytelling System™, and
Storytellers Vault™ are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of
White Wolf Entertainment AB. All rights reserved.
For additional information on White Wolf and the World of Darkness,
please, visit: www.white-wolf.com, www.worldofdarkness.com
and www.storytellersvault.com.
Table of Contents 3
Introduction 4
Blessings and Curses 8
Computers 16
Divination and Fate 24
Elemental Magick 36
Energy-Work 46
Enhanced Combat 56
Healing and Harming 66
Inanimate Objects 80
Miscellaneous 94
Movement and Communication 98
Mystic Perception 118
Necromancy 130
Obfuscation 136
Space-Time Management 142
Summoning, Binding and Warding 150
Transformations 164
Uncanny Influence 180
Appendix: Expanded Rules 198
Index of Rotes 202
Introduction
Introduction 5
What is this book?
This is a book that I've felt has been a long time
coming in the World of Darkness. Mage: The Ascension
has always had one of the most flexible magickal systems
in the entire RPG industry. Unfortunately, when
everything is possible, everything is difficult. The system
has always needed more explanation and has often been
supported by complex networks of house rules, internet
lore, and examples.
The 20th Anniversary Edition has gone a long way to
clarify the magical system. It has both written up the
spheres as clearly as possible and included a book How
Do You Do That? about how to do sphere magick. How
Do You Do That? is a very effective book, and has many
examples contained in it. But this is only a small
fraction of the example rotes that have appeared in
Mage books over the last 25 years. The purpose of this
volume is to collect as many of those rotes as possible (if
I have missed any that you spot, let me know and I will
update) and update their mechanics to match with what
is presented in Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary
Edition and How Do You Do That?
Differences Between Editions
We're going to ignore many of the differences with
how magick works between editions. The main thing
we're concerned with is which spheres are necessary for
various effects. This section will describe how the
various editions relate to Mage: The Ascension 20th
Anniversary Edition, to give context to the rest of the
book and to help update old rotes of your own.
First Edition
The system of the Spheres changed drastically
between First and Second Edition, as have the
mechanics surrounding Magick. Although the changes
from First Edition are too numerous to list exhaustively,
several of the more notable ones are:
• Astral Projection now requires Mind 4, not 5
• Crafting Realms now requires Spirit 5, not 4
• Warding now requires Correspondence 4, not 2
These are changes in the flagship powers for each level
of the spheres. There are many, many smaller
adjustments, such as what constitutes a "major" force
and what constitutes a "minor" one or what
"controlling" means vs. "affecting."
Rotes from First Edition need to be handled with care
also because paradigm was a new concept at the time
and the Technocracy was particularly underdeveloped
6 Enlightened Grimoire
compared to now, when there is Guide to the
Technocracy, the Revised Convention Books and the
upcoming Technocracy Reloaded. Many of the
paradigmatic aspects of procedures from the first set of
Convention books need to be modified to work with
the current view of the Union itself. Smaller changes
have happened to the Traditions as well, although their
systems were more detailed from the beginning and
have benefitted from more expansion.
However, these barely cover the differences, as much
of the language within the game has changed in subtle
ways. Rotes from First Edition should only be used after
being updated carefully, with the mechanical results
largely determined by the ST rather than the original
descriptions, which include such things as Forces doing
three damage per success. Many of them have been
updated in more recent books, and both references are
given when the rote is the same and given with the most
recent mechanics.
Second Edition
Second Edition rules are very close to 20th
Anniversary Edition rules. The changes mostly effect
specific rotes, such as that Polyappearance was a
Correspondence 5 rote up to Second Edition but has
been Correspondence 4 since then.
Second Edition is when the magick rules started to
approach their current form, with smaller modifications
going to Sorcerer's Crusade (which is essentially a
Second Edition spinoff), Revised and then 20th
Anniversary Edition.
Here, the basic descriptions of the Spheres and the
flagship abilities are approaching their current forms,
with no major changes in the flagship abilities, only in
what falls under which one from here on out.
Sorcerer's Crusade
Though the background and setting differ, Sorcerer's
Crusade has Spheres almost identical to 20th
Anniversary Edition. The list of common effects on
pages 508-510 of Mage: The Ascension 20th
Anniversary Edition are almost precisely an expansion
of the list on page 241 of Mage: The Sorcerer's
Crusade.
The most notable exceptions are:
Introduction 7
• sharing perceptions now requires Mind 2, rather
than being free
• shielding a mind only requires Mind 1
• Creating a Node is now Prime 5 whereas creating a
Cray was Prime 3/Matter 3
• refining Tass has increased from Prime 3 to 4.
Revised Edition
Most spheres are virtually identical between Revised
and 20th Anniversary Edition. There are three major
exceptions, however:
• Warding has moved from Correspondence 2 to Correspondence
4, making it much harder to prevent
access to locations
• Verbena Revised makes statements about healing
others being Life 4, which are seen nowhere else in
Mage and we'll disregard entirely
• viewing Avatars is Spirit 5 in Mage: The Ascension
Revised, but Spirit 1, Mind 3, Prime 2 in Mage: The
Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition.
How to Use This
Book
This book is not a definitive guide to rotes and mechanics
for magick in Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary
Edition. Instead, this is a book of examples,
pulling from the 25 years since Mage: The Ascension
First Edition was published. Here, rotes, spells and procedures
are all provided, updated to what spheres are
currently needed to use them. Some of them have paradigm
bits attached to them, but the simplest ones are
just descriptions of what they do.
An attempt has been made to organize all these rotes.
However, many of them fall into multiple categories, so
organizing them involves many judgment calls, and so a
specific rote may not always be in the first place you
would expect it.
In this book, you'll find:
• Whenever magick results in something vague, but
certain, it falls into Blessings and Curses. These
effects tend to alter probabilities to make something
happen, rather than require things to go exactly
a particular way.
• Just as Computers have touched every aspect of
mundane life, they have also become powerful
mystical tools, and even opened new realms for
Mages to explore.
• One of the oldest types of magick deals in Divination
and Fate. Mages have always been interested
in seeing places and times other than their
own, and in manipulating and understanding
their fate.
• Elemental Magick is one of the flashiest areas of
magick. Often vulgar, but almost always impressive,
few Mages interested in the Matter and
Forces spheres can afford to ignore it.
• Reality itself falls under the power of a Mage who
does Energy-Work. The ability to manipulate
Quintessence leads to the ability to directly alter
reality, and even to interfere with Paradox.
• Enhanced Combat consists of techniques for improving
upon mundane combat. Whether a martial
artist or a sharpshooter, any Mage who
doesn't rely entirely on magick in a fight will still
get a boost from it.
• The line between Healing and Harming is very
thing, so much so that doctors must swear to
"First, do no harm." This covers such things as direct
harm, torture, and diagnostics as well.
• Inanimate Objects are the subject of quite a bit of
magick. Alchemists have been studying transmutation
for centuries, and conjuration is just as ancient.
• Some effects don't fit nicely into other categories,
so we create a category, Miscellaneous, for them.
• Quick and instantaneous, as well as unusual
Movement and Communication are bundled together.
• When Mystic Perception is specifically to aid
something else, it is sorted with that, but a chapter
is devoted to those effects that do not.
• Necromancy contains rotes involving ghosts and
the dead, and particularly includes the infamous
Lichedom rote.
• Obfuscation is all about hiding things, most often
the Mage, through various means.
• Aside from travel and communication, Space-
Time Management contains rotes about bending
the structure of reality itself to a Mage's Will.
• Spirits and mystical defenses are handled in Summoning,
Binding and Warding
• The most fundamental thing that living things do
is change, so Transformations covers the many
ways that they can do so.
• Uncanny Influence contains rotes detailing the
various ways that a person or animal can be in the
power of a Mage.
• In the Appendix: Expanded are expanded rules
for rotes to give mechanical benefits and costs for
using them, and to drive story possibilities.
• Finally, we finish with an Index of Rotes, listing
every rote contained in this volume.
8 Enlightened Grimoire
Blessings and Curses
Any effect that causes an effect without specifying
HOW that effect is to be called is a blessing or a curse,
depending on whether the goal is positive or negative
for the target. These rotes almost all use Entropy in
some way, to cause circumstances to work out, often in
improbably ways, to bring about their ends.
This chapter is divided into three parts: Flexible Use
rotes which can either bless or curse depending on the
decisions of the Mage using them, Blessings and Curses.
Flexible Use
Sometimes, the same techniques than can bring blessings
and good luck can also take them away, or worse,
give bad luck. These rotes are flexible and leave the Mag
capable of deciding when used whether they will help or
hinder their target.
Balance the Scales
Tradition Book: Euthanatos (First Edition) page 67
Entropy 2 or 3, Life 2 or Matter 2 or Forces 2
With this, the Euthanatos can cause small accidents
or fortunes, the Entropy 2 version works once, Entropy
3 lasts for a duration. The Pattern sphere dictates the
sort of coincidences to occur.
Blight/Farmer's Favor
Mage: The Sorcerer's Crusade page 271
Life 3, Time 3 or Correspondence 2, Matter 2, optional Spirit 2,
Prime 2
This rote can be used to affect the state of crops or
stored food. Life 3 and Time 3 accelerate either growth
or decay of crops in the field, whereas Correspondence
2 and Matter 2 can preserve or destroyed stored crops.
Spirit can add an unpredictable element by requesting
help from the local spirits with whichever version is
being used, and Prime 2 preserves the soil from the
rapid draw of nutrients.
Luck Blessing/Curse
The Spirit Ways page 90
Spirit 3, Entropy 2
The shaman awakens the spirit of a location (size
determines number of successes required) and leaves
some king of object or symbol for the spirit. This object
causes the spirit to either help or hinder those who are
there for the duration of the effect. For a longer
duration, the spirit must be negotiated with directly.
Luck of the Lotus
Book of Crafts page 119
Entropy 3, Mind 2, optional Correspondence 2
The Wu-Keng can paint pictures of people and their
intentions for them, and in doing so twist their luck and
grant them either a good feeling aura or a bad one.
When the luck invoked is bad, this rote is called "The
Crippled Lotus Curse."
Namburbu
Dead Magic page 54
Entropy 4, Prime 3, Spirit 3, Correspondence 2, Life 2
This ritual doesn't read the omens like Adad, Istar,
Samas, Sin and Anunnaku. Instead, it allows the Mage
to reduce the severity of bad fates. First, the Mage and
any assistants must seclude themselves from the world,
either literally or symbolically (in a Magic Circle). Then,
everyone involved must shave and wash which inhaling
tamarisk incense to become pure. Then the leader
sacrifices a goat and rings a copper bell. Finally, food
and incense are offered to the gods as the participants
request help preventing the omen from coming true.
Threefold Return
Tradition Book: Verbena (Revised) page 68
Entropy 4, Time 4
By creating a small charm to be worn or carried (most
often a small mirror), the Verbena can bring the Law of
Threefold Return on those they interact with. When
expended, the person who acted towards the Mage will
receive a benefit or harm proportional to the number of
successes on this effect.
Blessings
These rotes bring about good fortune in those whom
they target, and range from immediate luck on a single
action, to preventing minor misfortunes in an infant's
childhood through causing money and inspiration to
fall into the hands of the target by chance.
Ansu Ishten
Dead Magic page 56
Entropy 3, Matter 3, optional Life 3
The Mage invokes a protective god and then recites a
list of the harms they want to protect an object or person
from, in rhyming couplets. This list is quite specific, and
every harm must be fully mundane. Each success adds
one to the difficulty of attempts to cause the fates on
this list, but there is no protection whatsoever for harm
not on this list.
Banishing Blessing
Tradition Book: Verbena (First Edition) page 64
Tradition Book: Verbena (Revised) page 65
Entropy 2, Mind 2, optional Correspondence 3
With three successes lasting a day and further
successes extending the duration, a Mage can make
someone go away. Something will come up in their lives
that causes them to want to leave, whether it's a free
vacation, a job opportunity, or long-lost relatives.
Baptism Rune
Dead Magic 2 page 100
Entropy 4
This rune is used to bless a newborn child, ensuring
that they do not die in combat, or at least, are less likely
to.
Beginner's Luck
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 194
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 163
Entropy 2
The first time trying some feat, the Mage gets
automatic successes on their ability roll for each success
on this rote.
Bless the Heavenly Flower
Dragons of the East page 68
Entropy 5, Life 4, Spirit 4
The Wu-Keng are tightly bound to the families in the
communities they serve. By entering a deep trance, the
Mage may travel to the Heavenly Flower Garden and
cultivate the flowers of benevolence for the family of a
ghost. Once they have bloomed sufficiently, that family
will give birth to a baby for whom that ghost will act as
a guardian. In extreme cases, that baby will in fact be
that ghost reborn.
Blessings and Curses 11
Bum a Dollar from the Universe
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 61
Entropy 2, Matter 2
The Hollow One who uses this rote will just happen
to come across money. Not a lot of it, but just enough
for what they need.
Buzzwords
Guide to the Technocracy page 209
Entropy 3, Mind 2
Using corporate and business buzz words, the
Technocrat can add successes to a roll related to the
success of a business enterprise.
Caesar's Due
Tradition Book: Order of Hermes (Revised) page 67
Entropy 2 or Forces 3, Prime 2, Correspondence 3
It's a rare thing for a Hermetic to be able to hold down
a day job, so they tend to come up with creative ways to
pay the bills. The Hermetic sets up a circle of seven bank
cards (that don't need to be active or even theirs), with
Enochian sigils inscribed on them, and puts their
monthly bills in the center. Prime creates an aetheric
matrix for insubstantial things to pass through (namely
electronic money), and then Correspondence covers an
area for Entropy to move the money around in. The
Forces 3 version is more brute force, and directly sends
signals that the bills have been paid. It is much riskier,
but possible, to use this to make money rather than just
to pay bills.
Epiphany of the Muse
Dead Magic page 105
Mind 2, Spirit 2 or Prime 1 or Entropy 1
This is a formal prayer to the Muses for inspiration.
By sacrificing something of value to them, good, jewelry,
an artifact, the Mage is gifted with insight. Mind 2 is
essential, but Spirit 2 gains the insight from a spirit,
Prime 1 helps create a thought from nothing, and with
Entropy the Mage lucks into it.
Games of Luck
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 192
12 Enlightened Grimoire
Technocracy: Syndicate page 47 (as Stacking the Deck)
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 194
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 163
Entropy 2
This rote can be used to influence the outcome of a
game of chance, the Mage getting more exactly the
outcome they want with more successes.
Luck Be a Lady Tonight
Fallen Tower: Las Vegas pas 120
Entropy 1, Spirit 2
Summons a spirit of luck to assist the mage.
Masquerade to Adulthood
Dead Magic page 29
Spirit 3 or Correspondence 2
A coming-of-age ritual that allows the Mage to keep
the initiation involved a secret from spiritual
eavesdroppers or weakens the ties of the subject to
things connected to their childhood.
Midwife's Blessing
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 195
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 164
Entropy 4
Only able to be used on a newborn, this rote grants
the child an easier life, preventing misfortunes and
causing good luck to follow them.
Nobody Dies in Vegas
Fallen Tower: Las Vegas pas 119
Entropy 4, Correspondence 4
There is an unspoken rule that any trouble stays out
of Las Vegas to avoid disrupting business. So, if a Mage
is actively leaving Las Vegas, this rote gives a +1 penalty
to difficulty per success to all attempts to stop them
from escaping. This protection lasts until the user
escapes from the geographic boundary that is important
to their pursuit, whether it be the city limits, the county
line or the state of Nevada.
Reflecting Bane
Dead Magic page 30
Spirit 3 or Mind 1, optional Life 3
Blessings and Curses 13
With a proper reflective surface, a malevolent spirit
can be tricked into looking at its reflection and scaring
it off. This effect can also reflect malignant thoughts
with Mind. With Life, in addition to being a guard
against evil influence, the subject's healing is
accelerated.
Shishipat's Favor
Dead Magic page 132
Life 1
By eating goose boiled in caribou fat, the Mage
ensures that the subject will have a successful hunt,
giving decreased difficulty to their next Survival or
Athletics rolls.
Waiting to Exhale
Dead Magic page 77
Entropy 3, Spirit 2, optional Correspondence 2
A group of women contribute blood to this ritual.
The Mage then offers the blood to the gods as a burnt
offering, and in exchange the gods protect the women's'
homes, preventing misfortunes.
Weeping for Tammuz
Dead Magic page 52
Entropy 3
The Babylonians have a story about the goddess
Ereshkigal who fell in love with a mortal named
Tammuz. When the mortal died, she sacrificed herself,
staying in the underworld, that he could live, and
eventually a bargain was struck where Tammuz's sister
would take his place for half the year. By making this
sacrifice, and by making symbolic sacrifices of a similar
nature, the priests of Babylon were able to guarantee
good fortune. This rote allows the Mage to bury an
object of personal significance (or a person) and in
exchange adds automatic successes to a task in the
future.
Wurnan Blessing
Dead Magic 2 page 66
Entropy 2, Spirit 2
This rote is used by the Law Woman of an Aboriginal
tribe on a new baby. It briefly connects the child to the
inter-relationship between all members of the tribe and
ensures that minor accidents are avoided during the
first days of the baby's life.
Curses
Curses are a class of rotes that bring misfortune onto
their targets through chance. They may be merely annoying,
or they may be life-threatening.
Ace of Diamonds
Guide to the Technocracy page 209
Entropy 3, Prime 1
Largely regarded as an unlucky card, Ace of Diamonds
allows a Technocrat to cause their target to become
extremely unlucky. This is so severe that for every two
successes, the target loses on success for all rolls for the
duration of the effect.
Actively Actuarial
Guide to the Technocracy page 208
Entropy 2
Like Beginner's Luck, it causes unlikely events to
happen. While Beginner's Luck applies to a single
action of the user, this causes an unlikely but bad fate
to befall the chosen target. More successes (minimum 1,
maximum 20) are required for both the severity of the
event and the unlikeliness.
Death Curse
The Spirit Ways page 90
Life 3, Spirit 2, optional Correspondence 2
The shaman conducts a ritual to cause harm to a
target. When finished, the target experiences a serious
illness, which may be as quick as a sudden heart attack
or as slow as a wasting fever. The shaman needs at least
the target's Stamina + Health levels successes.
Correspondence is needed unless they directly confront
the target.
Death Wish
Orphan's Survival Guide page 127
Correspondence 2, Life 2 or 3, optional Entropy 3;
Forces 3, Correspondence 2, Prime 2, Life 2
The most basic version causes things to go wrong,
giving the victim bad luck. The second version is much
14 Enlightened Grimoire
deadlier and causes aggravated damage via Life to the
target according to what is most appropriate for the
caster. The Correspondence 2/Life 3/Entropy 3 variant
combines the two effects. The deadliest version is the
final one, which causes the victim to burst into flames.
Learn-It
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (Revised) page 62
Correspondence 2, Entropy 2, Prime 3, Time 2
An instructional rote, of sorts, it's also a stealth
weapon against the Technocracy. The Virtual Adept
using it tags the target and this causes enemies and
challenges "appropriate to the target's current power
level." Every success causes the target to become a
magnet for one skill-appropriate challenge per session.
This number can be modified by the original user, or by
someone with Prime 2, though they cannot reduce it
below one. To negate it completely requires Prime 3 and
Entropy 3.
Rival's Curse
Order of Reason page 108
Entropy 4, Correspondence 2
A long-distance Entropy-based attack on an enemy.
This attack usually takes the form of such bad luck that
it seems that everything is out to kill the target, doing
damage based on the number of successes.
Sha'ir's Sentence
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page 90
Entropy 3, Life 2, Mind 2
The Taftani first composes a poem about the target
which evokes their weaknesses and then recites the
poem at the target. This concludes with giving the target
a nickname which captures these weaknesses. This rote
then causes the nickname to stick and for it to become
increasingly true over time. This can be very slow, often
a gradual change over the course of years, but it can
cause "Camel Face" to lose Appearance and
"Stumblefoot" to lose Dexterity.
The same technique works in the other direction: a
poem highlighting strengths can emphasize strengths.
Giving someone the title "the Clever" can gain them
Mental Attributes, for instance.
A new nickname given with this rote will override an
old one.
Spoiling
Dead Magic 2 page 128
Entropy 2, Life 2
Blessings and Curses 15
This rote brings bad luck to a target, and with Life
that bad luck extends to their crops and livestock.
Statistical Mechanics
Technocracy: Iteration X page 47
Entropy 2
Iteration X's Statisticians have all sorts of statistics at
their fingertips. With this procedure, by reminding the
target of a fact regarding their action, they can shift the
odds in their favor or against them.
Vext
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 64
Entropy 2, Time 3
Used on enemies of the Hollow Ones (and NEVER
on another Hollow One), this causes that target to have
a series of minor setbacks and annoyances, just bad luck,
for a number of days equal to the successes.
16 Enlightened Grimoire
Computers
The computer is quite possibly the most influential
invention in the modern world. This influence has extended
to the realm of magick. In addition to being a
particularly potent magickal tool, the computer has
opened up new avenues for both old techniques and
new ones.
This chapter is divided into rotes regarding the Digital
Web, those involving Electronics (mostly their interaction
with electricity), then Hacking and Information
and finally Upgrades, because every computer can be
improved.
Digital Web
The Digital Web is a virtual reality that was supposedly
created by Alan Turing right before his death.
Though it was a Mage-only playground in the 90s, it is
now a lot more accepted and some Sleepers can enter.
For more information, see pages 103-109 and 466-473
of Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition.
Brand (the Rawhide Rote)
Digital Web 2.0 page 112
Entropy 2, Forces 2, Prime 2, optional Time 4
A method of branding a Digital Web icon so that the
brand stays visible despite any changes of form. Adding
Time guarantees that the Brand lasts until the
punishment is over.
Create Virtual Object/Create Daemon
Digital Web page 98 (Object), 99 (Daemon)
Digital Web 2.0 page 114
Forces 3, Prime 2, optional Mind 4, optional Spirit 4
This rote can create an inanimate object inside the
Digital Web. The advanced version, Create Daemon,
allows the Mage to create a simple AI rather than an
inanimate object.
Digital Disruption
Digital Web page 98 (as Joshua's Goodbye)
Digital Web 2.0 page 112
Forces 2, Prime 2, optional Entropy 2
A basic online attack rote. With just Forces and
Prime, it will soft de-rez the target, with Entropy it will
inflict a hard de-rez.
Doe's Password
18 Enlightened Grimoire
Digital Web page 98
Mind 3, Entropy 2
This rote uses Mind to link to a Restricted program
and Entropy to find a way in, giving any Mage access to
Restricted sectors.
Encode
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (Revised) page 65
Correspondence 2, Life 2 or Matter 2, Prime 2
This rote allows a Cyberpunk to store an object in
virtual space for later use.
Energy Transformation
Digital Web page 98
Life 4, Forces 2, Correspondence 1
This allows a Mage to physically enter the Digital
Web.
Feedback
Digital Web 2.0 page 115
Mind 3 or Life 3, Forces 2;
Forces 3, Mind 2, Prime 2
For a user who is either using sensory immersion or
astral immersion into the Digital Web, but not physical
immersion, this rote creates a feedback loop to overload
the target's equipment. The simplest form uses raw
static information to create the loop and causes intense
pain and disorientation (standard Mind sphere attack),
whereas the more advanced Life-based version and
Forces 3 version cause physical damage to the target.
FIRP
Digital Web 2.0 page 155
Mind 5, Entropy 4, Forces 3, Life 3, Prime 2
FIRP, or Fractal Interference Removal Procedure, is
one of the more brutal rotes that can be found among
Digital Web users, it blasts energy or projectiles in a
fractal pattern, fracturing the target's consciousness,
scattering their icon and energy, and then using Life to
bring the attack into the physical world. Effectively this
causes a Chaos Dump, splitting the target's
consciousness between their body and their broken
icon, and largely considered a fate worse than death.
Fractal Encryption
Computers 19
Digital Web 2.0 page 115
Entropy 3, Forces 2, Prime 2
This rote encrypts data as a three-dimensional fractal
sculpture in the Digital Web. It can only be decrypted
with the same rote. Failure on either the encryption or
decryption side destroys the information.
Hardware Entry
Digital Web page 98
Correspondence 1
With a VR Rig, allows the Mage to enter the Digital
Web with Sensory or Astral Immersion. Many mages
still prefer to use this rote, but it is no longer necessary
to use any magic for Sensory Immersion. It is necessary
to couple this with Astral Projection to enter the Digital
Web astrally.
Information Superhighway
Digital Web page 99
Time 3, Correspondence 2
Using this, the Mage can travel more quickly along
routes within the Digital Web, with Time speeding up
time around them and Correspondence allowing them
to follow the natural conduits and routes.
Instant Offline
Digital Web page 98
Digital Web 2.0 page 115
Correspondence 3, Forces 2
Soft de-razzes the user, getting them out of the Digital
Web instantly. Usually, this is used as a sort of "panic
button."
Online Virus Transmitter Program
Digital Web 2.0 page 112
Correspondence 2, Forces 2, Life 2, Prime 2
This rote allows a Mage to craft a virus that infects
another user's icon and then uses that connection to
infect the user with a disease.
Overwrite
Digital Web page 99
Prime 4, Entropy 3, Forces 3
20 Enlightened Grimoire
The rote permits the Mage to alter parameters and is
always vulgar as it involves pushing against the nature of
the Digital Web itself. Five successes are necessary to
fully remove a parameter.
Parallax
Digital Web 2.0 page 115
Correspondence 4, Forces 2, Mind 1
Powerful Virtual Adepts often need to be in multiple
places at once, and when online, this rote handle that.
The digital version of Polyappearance, with Forces 2
and Mind 1 added in the Mage can not only be in
several places simultaneously but can act independently
in each of them.
Restrict Sector
Digital Web page 99
Mind 4, Prime 3
This permanently seals off a sector as Restricted.
When used, the Mage chooses some parameters that
determine who can enter, and the restrictions last until
destroyed.
TechnoVision
Digital Web page 98
Digital Web 2.0 page 112
Correspondence 1, Entropy 1, Forces 1, Mind 1, Prime 1
Pulling up a readout window, the Digital Web user
has a running basic analysis and scan of their
surroundings.
Virtual Talisman Transmogrification
Digital Web page 98
Matter 3, Prime 3, Forces 2
This allows the Mage to transfer a Talisman into the
Digital Web just as a person can physically enter it.
Webcrawlers
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (Revised) page 66
Correspondence 3, Forces 3, Prime 2
Nexplorers use this rote to create energy-arachnids in
virtual space that can follow simple commands. Most
often, they act as information retrieval systems, or
defensive walls of force.
A Webcrawler is create with 3 health levels and the
ability to follow simple commands. More successes
create more Webcrawlers rather than more powerful
ones.
Electronics
Computers run on electricity, and so there's always a
lot of it around a computer. Though most electrical
rotes are in the Elemental Magick chapter, these are the
ones that specifically deal with computers and the electronics
inside them.
Boot Buzzer
Hidden Lore page 20
Correspondence 2, Forces 2, optional Forces 3, Prime 2
A Virtual Adept prank/attack rote, they can connect
to any computer on a network they have access to and
cause it to electrocute its user. With Forces 2, it takes
time to build the charge and it is weaker, only doing one
level of damage per success. With Forces 3/Prime 2, it
builds instantly and causes normal damage.
Burn Out
Book of Shadows page 145
Forces 2, Entropy 1
This rote lets the Mage fry circuitry by directing
electricity at its weakest point, disabling mundane
electronics easily.
FOR NEXT Loop
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 220
Correspondence 4, Life 4, Forces 2
This Virtual Adept technique converts the target to
energy and puts them into a computer and then breaks
them by pushing them through various circuit boards.
The victim rolls Willpower (difficulty 10 - Intelligence)
to escape. Each success causes the victim to lose a point
of Willpower, but a failure gives them another chance
to escape.
Red Button
Technocracy: New World Order page 49
Entropy 3, Forces 3, Prime 2
Computers 21
When raiding the laboratories of rogue
Technomages, such as Etherites, this allows the New
World Order to find the weaknesses in their machinery
and use them to destroy the equipment.
System Crash
Digital Web 2.0 page 113
Correspondence 2, Forces 2, Prime 2
This rote allows a Mage who is on the Digital Web to
crash a Sleeper system. More successes are needed to
bring down more secure systems and more are needed
to destroy them rather than just temporarily disable
them.
System Havoc
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 195
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 198
Forces 2
This rote causes a spike of electrical energy into a
system, causing electronics that aren't properly shielded
to fry.
That Rascal Puff
Hidden Lore page 51
Life 3, Forces 3, Prime 2, Correspondence 2
A Marauder once encountered by Dante connected a
room full of computers and then breathed fire on one,
causing all of them to explode. Correspondence links
them, and Life allows the Marauder to breathe the
fireball from Forces 3 and Prime 2, which travels
through the connection causing a larger detonation.
Hacking and Information
Although information gathering has long been a popular
use of magick, the computer has introduced entirely
new issues with it. For one thing, there is so much
more information that there ever has been before, and
it's all stored in an accessible way and often even organized
nicely. The rotes that follow are about how to get
access to that information either to retrieve it or to destroy
it.
Black Card/Little Black Box
Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition page 601
Correspondence 2, Forces 2, Mind 2
22 Enlightened Grimoire
Using some kind of black box or security card, the
Mage can attempt to hack a system that they normally
could never reach.
Captain's Treasure
Digital Web page 99
Prime 4, Entropy 2
The Mage locates a conduit containing financial data
(usually near a Syndicate sector) and shifts it so that the
streams pass through the Mage's accounts on the way to
their primary goal. Entropy prevents accounting
programs from noticing as money is skimmed from the
stream.
Core Dump
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (Revised) page 64
Correspondence 2, Time 2, Forces 3 or Mind 3
This allows the Virtual Adept to load a massive
amount of useless data into a computer via Forces or a
person via Mind. This overwhelms them to the point
where they are unable to initiate an action for three
rounds. If more successes than target's Willpower, the
computer will crash, or the person will enter a
temporary come (they will recover after a successful
Willpower roll, rolled once a day).
Disk-Doctor
Book of Crafts page 103
Entropy 3, Mind 2, Forces 1
This rote has been essential for maintaining the
secrecy of the Knights Templar. With it, a Templar can
scan any piece of computer storage media for given data
and delete it.
DRM
Convention Book: New World Order (Revised) page 85
Data 3, Prime 2, Mind 1
Marks a piece of data with custom code as a booby
trap. It pulls identifying information from an intruder
and sends it to the Technocrat, as well as providing
countermagick against attempts to obtain the data
illegitimately.
Encrypt
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (Revised) page 65
Mind 3 or Forces 3, Time 3
This rote scrambles a person's (or computer's)
memory so that if coercion is used to try to make them
speak, they will respond only with nonsense. What they
are doing is responding fully with everything they
remember, but in a randomized configuration that
makes no sense to outsiders. Every success on this effect
decreases the opponent's Interrogation or Investigation
skills by one, with Decrypt being the inverse effect
which increases them.
Graphic Transmission
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 206
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 210
Mind 3
A Virtual Adept illusion effect, it produces computer
graphics, and then transmits them to the target's mind.
The number of successes determines how complex the
illusion is partial successes may look like CGI to the
viewer.
Hacker's Glance
Digital Web page 98
Entropy 2, Correspondence 1
This rote analyzes massive amounts of data to increase
the odds that the Mage will find what they are looking
for. Successes add to a subsequent data retrieval roll.
Intel
Guide to the Technocracy page 206
Correspondence 3, Mind 1
Virtually every piece of information that anyone
could want is stored on a computer somewhere. With
this procedure, a Technocrat can find and download
the information that they seek. More difficult and better
hidden information requires more successes.
Mental Interface
Hidden Lore page 19
Correspondence 2, Forces 2, Mind 2
This rote allows the Virtual Adept to use their
computer to see what is being actively done on another.
Remote Access
Digital Web 2.0 page 113
Correspondence 2, Forces 2
Computers 23
Allows the Mage to access a network from a distance.
Virtual Lockpick
Digital Web page 99
Time 3, Correspondence 1, Forces 2, Mind 1
This rote compresses time insight the computer and
makes many, many educated guesses about what the
password may be. To use this, the Mage needs to already
know a login ID.
Upgrades
No one wants to work with an obsolete machine, and
if you're a Mage, you often don't have to.
AI (Artificial Intelligence)
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 211
Mind 5
With this rote, a Technomage can create a full
artificial intelligence. It can live in a computer, be
transferred to the Digital Web or, with Life, given a
living body.
Audience of Inanna
Dead Magic page 57
Correspondence 2, Matter 2, Time 1
Originally used to prevent impotence by placing a
figurine of Inanna, a fertility goddess, at the head of a
bed, Virtual Adepts have adapted it to avoid
obsolescence: old hardware can run as effectively as
new, and with enough successes, can convert a laptop
into a supercomputer.
Personal Assistant Software
Convention Book: New World Order (Revised) page 86
Mind 5, Prime 2
This procedure creates a digital smartphone assistant
based on the Technocrat's personality. The intelligent
assistant controls the phone or computer's operation
and assists the agent in using it more efficiently.
Psychic Interface
Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition page 608
Mind 3 or 4, Data 2, Forces 2, optional Spirit 2 instead of Data
In short, this effect allows a Mage to access their
computers remotely, directly from their minds. When
this is active, meditation may be used in place of
computers and IT gear as an instrument. This often still
involves some sort of technological instrument, such as
implants, glass-tech or the like, though those with
cybernetics can work directly.
Remote Programming
Technocracy: Iteration X page 47
Forces 2
It can be far more efficient to program a computer or
a robot directly, rather than via a keyboard. An Iterator
with mental implants can use this procedure to directly
connect their implants to the target and program it
directly. To do so from far away, however, requires
Correspondence.
24 Enlightened Grimoire
Divination and Fate
Fate has always been known to be something that
mankind was not meant to meddle with. So of course,
from the earliest legends, we have heroes and wizards
attempting to divine their fate, to see things that are far
away, things they aren't supposed to know, and of
course, change their fate.
This chapter is divided into sections about Espionage,
Fate, Oaths, Prophecy and Scrying. Espionage, Prophecy
and Scrying are all ways to find out what's going on
or what has or will happen, and Fate is the things that
are set in stone (for most people, nothing is set in stone
for a Mage). Oaths are how a person can bind their fates
and gain power from them, as well as penalties for breaking
them.
Espionage
Espionage is the art of discovering things that others
don't want you to know. These rotes are designed to
uncover hidden information, to watch what people are
doing when they think no one is watching, and to otherwise
obtain hidden knowledge.
Book of Whispers
Blood Treachery page 88
Mind 2, Matter 3, Time 3
A common rote among the Bonisagus, this rote binds
a blank book to a person. Then, the book fills with the
person's surface thoughts. The book must be in the
subject's immediate vicinity to work, but it doesn't need
to be obvious (it may be disguised among other books).
Crowd Surfing
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 62
Mind 4
In a large crowd interacting with each other, like at a
concert or a party, the Hollow One can erect a facade of
coolness and mingle, and come away with a sense of
who's who, who feels what for whom, and the like.
Eavesdropper
Hidden Lore page 19
Correspondence 2, Forces 2
A Technomage using this rote picks up a phone, dials
a long sequence of digits, and can listen in on anything
said near another working telephone.
High-Definition
26 Enlightened Grimoire
Convention Book: New World Order (Revised) page 85
Data 2, Mind 2
By accessing a communication line, generally cable
TV or Internet, this allows the Agent to see through any
modern (LCD, plasma, etc.) television.
Monitor Communications
Technocracy: New World Order page 45
Forces 1
The New World Order's Watchers use this effect to
spy on electronic communications.
Nearest and Dearest
Hidden Lore page 54
Mind 3, Correspondence 2, Time 2
By going through a wallet or a database, a Syndicate
Enforcer can find out detailed information about their
target's family and loved ones.
Phone Tap
Technocracy: New World Order page 49
Correspondence 2, Forces 2
The New World Order is skilled in communication
and can both send secure messages and intercept the
messages of others with this procedure.
PIN Drop
Technocracy: Syndicate page 47
Data 2, Forces 2, Mind 2, Time 2
By hacking an ATM or similar device, a Syndicate
Agent can acquire a target's personal identification
number, and use it to obtain all linked information,
usually including social security number, address, bank
account numbers, etc.
Squaring the Circle
Order of Reason page 88
Correspondence 2, Mind 1
A Mage can use this rote to spy on conversations
occurring in a place where the Mage cannot go.
Correspondence is used to access the location and Mind
to discern the conversations. It is more difficult
depending on how vigilant against spies the targets are.
Surveillance
Guide to the Technocracy page 204
Correspondence 2, optional Forces 1
A Technocrat can use this procedure to access the
feed from any video camera, microphone or other
device that can pick up a signal. With Forces, the enddevice
is unnecessary, as variations in energy can be
detected directly.
Telescreen
Guide to the Technocracy page 205
Correspondence 2, Mind 2
The New World Order is quite adept at watching
people through their television screens. With this
Procedure, they can not only do that, but if they have
more successes than the target's Willpower, they can
analyze psychic defenses.
Tracking Device
Guide to the Technocracy page 205
Correspondence 2
Marks an object so that it can be detected and found
later, particularly useful if the Agent can arrange for it
to be picked up by someone they want to track.
Fate
Fate, Destiny, the Divine Will, whatever you call it, it
is that part of the future which is supposedly unavoidable.
In truth, Mages can avoid anything, for a high
enough price. These rotes allow the Mage to read or
alter Fate.
Adad
Dead Magic page 53
Entropy 2, Correspondence 2, Spirit 1
By reading signs of Adad in the stars, Babylonian
mages could determine the general fate of an area and
the people within. Very detailed readings are almost
impossible with this rote, but general things like
"prosperity" or even "a break in the walls" for a major
event can be determined with varying numbers of
successes.
Chaos Butterfly
Divination and Fate 27
Blood Treachery page 91
Entropy 2, Prime 2, Spirit 2
Houses Thig and Fortunae use this rote by inscribing
a sigil and focusing their intent on some larger effect
they wish to cause. This summons a minor Umbrood, a
butterfly with wings of fire. The Mage then must forget
about the desired effect and let the butterfly flutter
away. At some point in the future, likely in a very
unexpected way, the effect that the Mage desired comes
to pass. In fact, this effect should always take the
character (and the player) by surprise.
Contemplation
Order of Reason page 84
Spirit 2
Celestial Masters can gain insight from the stars, as
they align with the world on the Spirit planes. This can
give the user a vague insight, though never anything
particularly big nor that circumvents an aspect of the
story.
Dogon Divination
Dead Magic page 27
Time 2, Entropy 1
Like other forms of Time Sight, this variant allows the
Mage to perceive the patterns that are emerging, and
28 Enlightened Grimoire
which actions might prevent bad fates in the future,
rather than seeing the future itself.
Find the Lost
Tradition Book: Celestial Chorus (Revised) page 57
Correspondence 1 or 2, Entropy 2 or Mind 2
Choristers often use this rote to find people who are
troubled and in need of help. Correspondence 2 is
needed if searching for someone beyond line of sight.
Mind detects them based on their thoughts and
emotions, Entropy manipulates luck to bring the Mage
to the person.
Istar
Dead Magic page 54
Entropy 4, Correspondence 3, Spirit 3
By reading the signs of Istar in the sky, the Mage may
gain insight into the fates of nations and their leaders.
The results of reading these fates are very metaphorical
and broad, rarely are individual events predicted, but
the general sense of what will happen can be
determined.
Laying on of Hands
Dead Magic 2 page 102
Entropy 1, Life 1, Time 2
The Mage touches the subject and can see which
wounds they are likely to take during an upcoming
battle. This is useful for attempting to avoid those
wounds, with armor, magick or other means.
Lighting the Path
Tradition Book: Celestial Chorus (Revised) page 58
Correspondence 2 or Entropy 2
A Chorister who seeks a specific person, place or
thing uses the Correspondence version of this rote,
where the number of successes determines how much
detail they learn about the road to it. The Entropy
version is useful for vague requests, such as when the
character needs direction.
Read the Lightning
Dead Magic 2 page 143
Forces 2 or 4, Time 2
Etruscan Mages could read the future in the patterns
of lightning strikes and thunderclaps. In fact, the Mage
calls down lightning to do so. This requires only Forces
2 in stormy weather, but Forces 4 can do it in any
weather.
Samas
Dead Magic page 54
Correspondence 2, Forces 2
Samas is the sun, and its signs involve the path it takes
through the sky, which changes every day. By reading
these omens, the fates of crops, weather and other
things that depend on the sun can be divined.
Search Engine
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (Revised) page 63
Correspondence 2, Entropy 1, Prime 1
This rote puts the Virtual Adept in touch with
someone who matches their needs, or someone who
knows someone who does. Each success gives a 20%
chance of finding a person of the type they need.
Silent Promise of the Spring Tortoise
Book of Crafts page 119
Entropy 1
By adopting a turtle and raising it for a week, and then
boiling and eating it, a Wu-Keng may divine the odds of
their next undertaking from the way the shell cracks.
Sin
Dead Magic page 54
Entropy 2, Spirit 2, Prime 1 or Entropy 4, Spirit 4, Prime 4
Moon phases and paths are one of the most complex
sets of omens that Babylonian mages had access to. The
readings from Sin are as broad as those from Samas,
though usually much more straightforward. With the
greater version, huge changes and calamities can be
predicted.
Wyrd Visions
Dead Magic 2 page 102
Correspondence 2, Entropy 1, Time 2
The Mage attunes themselves to the threads of fate,
seeking an understanding of the past, present and
future.
Divination and Fate 29
Oaths
There is a power in voluntarily restricting yourself in
some way, there's a reason why so many religions include
fasting in some form. Sometimes, a person can
swear an oath to do something and gain power from
it…and be harmed terribly if they break it. Other times,
the oath comes with only the consequences, but no benefits.
Binding Oath
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 195
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 164
Entropy 5
Binds an oath or contract to fate and destiny
themselves. If the oath is broken, disaster will befall the
oathbreaker, and anyone who looks at them with
Entropy senses can see that that's what they are.
Fate Mark
Guide to the Traditions page 280
Entropy 4
Simpler than a Binding Oath, a Fate Mark is
detectable to anyone with Entropy senses, and can be
customized, for instance, to mark someone as a
Tradition Herald or a messenger.
Geasa
Tradition Book: Euthanatos (Revised) page 62
Entropy 5
A Master can read Fate carefully enough that they can
request that Fate give an individual attention. Often
Geasa are laid at birth, but it may happen otherwise.
Every two successes allow the Mage to give a level of
Geasa, up to five levels. Five additional successes are
needed to make it permanent. For each level, the
character may gain an additional Freebie point, as at
character creation. However, the consequences of
violating the Geasa are dire and up to the ST. A Geasa
is identical to the "Paranormal Prohibition or
Imperative" Flaw on Page 83 of the Book of Secrets.
Major Geas
Dead Magic 2 page 118
Entropy 5, Mind 5
Like Binding Oath, though Mind allows the Mage to
force it upon the target.
Minor Geas
Dead Magic 2 page 118
Entropy 2, Mind 2
The Mage voluntarily swears a binding oath, that
overrules all other concerns for them. Mind binds the
target's honor code into upholding the geas, and
Entropy causes bad luck if it is broken.
Secret Rune
Dead Magic 2 page 101
Entropy 5
The Mage uses this rune when sharing a secret with a
trusted person. The trusted person swears an oath to
keep the information secret, and the Secret Rune binds
them to that oath. If they break the trust, they gain a
flaw worth one point per two successes on this spell.
Sparrow's Fall
Order of Reason page 110
Time 4, Entropy 3, Prime 2, may substitute Mind 4 or Life 3
Like the Branding Rote, Sparrow's Fall marks
someone with a forbidden act and attacks them if they
commit it, for instance, marking a suspected Vampire
to be harmed if it drinks blood. Three successes are
needed to create the mark, and successes beyond that
are used for damage. The three variants use Prime 2,
Life 3 and Mind 4 to cause the damage.
Prophecy
Whether by computer simulation, prayer to the divine,
or mystical trances, Mages of all sorts want to see
the future. Prophecy is the art of predicting the future
or viewing the past.
All Tomorrow's Parties
Orphan's Survival Guide page 127
Mind 3, Time 2
30 Enlightened Grimoire
By asking the right questions of the right people, the
Mage can find out about upcoming events, scanning
nearby minds to determine if there's something being
planned and using Time, looking ahead slightly. This
gives hunches and inclinations that guide the Mage to
an event even if they cannot get people to directly tell
them about it.
Anunnaku
Dead Magic page 54
Entropy 3, Prime 3, Spirit 3
This set of omens are one of the most immediately
useful: the ability to read the present and future of
supernatural forces. It's particularly effective at reading
the fates of malevolent forces and is one of the most
effective techniques for determining the plans of the
Nephandi.
Biometric Holographic Recreation
Convention Book: Progenitors (Revised) page 72
Forces 2, Time 2
With a half hour spent scanning and detailed
investigation of the scene of an incident, the Progenitor
investigator can create a perfect holographic replica of it
down to the last speck of dust.
Celestial Prediction
Order of Reason page 86
Time 2
A Celestial Master may study the stars and use them
to deduce something that has happened in the past or
will happen in the future.
Chronopathy
Hidden Lore page 16
Time 2 or 4, Mind 3
Combining Telepathy and Past or Future Sight, the
Mage can experience the past or future from the
perspective of a denizen of that time. With Time 4, they
can even send brief thoughts and impulses to the target.
Crime and Consequence
Divination and Fate 31
Tradition Book: Cult of Ecstasy (Revised) page 72
Mind 2, Time 2
The Cultist looks forward in time and causes the
target to feel all the consequences of their actions in
advance, all at once.
Divinations
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 192
Time 2
The Mage can investigate the past or future, with
successes spent on both the duration of the vision and
how far away it is. The further back or forward, of
course, the less accurate the divination.
Don't Cross the Streams
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (Revised) page 64
Correspondence 2, Time 2
This rote developed by Chaoticians gives a warning
about a specific place, and the more successes the more
specific the warning about a potential danger will be.
Forecasting
Convention Book: Syndicate (Revised) page 74
Entropy 2, Time 2
The Technocrat creates a simulation and spends a
turn inputting data, after which the agent can spend one
success to roll their next action in advance, with each
additional success allowing a roll for an alternate action.
The player can't roll the same action twice but can
choose which action to take.
The Geometry of Trade
The Swashbuckler's Handbook page 91
Time 2, optional Correspondence 2 and Mind 2, or Entropy 2
A technique developed by the High Guild, by
gathering information about trade and prices in an area.
Time gives information about the future,
Correspondence allows it to target the trade in a
different place, Mind gives insight into what people
want, and Entropy helps to make the predictions more
accurate.
Hepatoscopy
Dead Magic 2 page 143
Time 2
The Mage slaughters an animal and can read the
future in its liver.
Jung's Trick
Convention Book: New World Order (Revised) page 86
Mind 3, Data 2
By researching the subject's dreams, the Technocrat
can create an algorithm to analyze the subject's
subconscious. Then, the Agent can analyze dreams in
progress and predict what the subject intends to do in
the next day.
Long-Range Eyes
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (First Edition) page 62
Time 2, Correspondence 2, Mind 1
The Mage can look at any given place or time and
follow a given target forward or backwards.
Manipulate Time Fragment
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 46
Time 2
With the proper apparatus, a Void Engineer
Chrononaut can see ten minutes into the future or the
past, albeit not necessarily clearly.
Nonlinear Prediction
Guide to the Technocracy page 208
Entropy 2
The Technocrat can use a complex statistical model
to predict the probable outcome of one action. More
successes are needed for the more complex the action
being predicted is.
Peeping Tom
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 228
Time 2, Correspondence 2
The Mage can look backwards in time at any location,
whether they are there or not.
Planned Projection
Technocracy: Iteration X page 49
Time 2
Using complex statistics, the Iterator can predict the
future (to reasonable accuracy) of a single person, place
or thing.
Play Back
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 221
Data 2, Time 2
A Virtual Adept technique that allows them to obtain
recordings and other data, even if it has been damaged
or attempts have been made to destroy it.
Postcognition
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 218
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 223
Time 2
This allows the Mage to view a location and look
backwards in time, as though rewinding.
Psychometry
Hidden Lore page 14
Time 2, Matter 1
By touching an object, the Mage can get a sense of its
background and important events that occurred near it
during its history.
Quo Vadis? (Whither Goest Thou?)
Book of Crafts page 103
Correspondence 2, Mind 2, Time 2
This rote gives a Templar an approximate idea of the
target's planned route, where they will be going in the
near future.
Reading the Umbral Skein
Tradition Book: Dreamspeakers (Revised) page 70
Mind 1, Spirit 2, Time 2, optional Correspondence 2 or 3
Functionally identical to usual Time magic scrying,
this rote gives access to the history (not the future!) of a
portion of the Umbra corresponding to the user's
location (or elsewhere with Correspondence). The
temporal distance that can be seen is 21 times the usual
amount, allowing the Mage to see into the deep past of
the Umbra, and Mind is used to allow the Mage to
remember every bit of the often-bizarre information
gained this way.
Running Scenarios
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 68
Entropy 2, Mind 4, Time 2
This rote requires at least one level of the Dream
background.
Using the information available from the Dream
background and the flexibility of dreams, the Mage runs
through huge numbers of scenarios and possibilities.
When they wake up, they will have an accurate
assessment of the probabilities of various actions related
to the problem they were dreaming about, and some
relevant skills (as per Dream).
Salmon of Wisdom
Dead Magic 2 page 120
Mind 3, Time 2, optional Spirit 2
The Mage enters a dreamlike trance that reveals a
portion of the future. Mind ensures that the Mage can
enter the trance while awake and remember what
Divination and Fate 33
occurs. Spirit allows the Mage to contact the salmon of
wisdom themselves and speak to them.
The Scented Handkerchief
Order of Reason page 86
Time 2
The Mage can discern facts about recent events from
disparate environmental clues. With more successes,
more clues are pulled together and a more detailed
description of what occurred can be inferred.
Songs of Future Days
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 218
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 223
Time 2
Like Postcognition, but it involves viewing the future
rather than the past.
Strategic Inefficiency Analysis
Guide to the Technocracy page 209
Entropy 2, Time 2
Via precise statistical modeling, a Technocrat can
predict what a given organization is planning, though
several successes are needed to determine anything
other than the absolute basics.
Sugar Magnolias
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 228
Time 2, Mind 3
This rote allows a Mage to experience past events via
the subject's memories. This is not just viewing the
memories, however, but rather reconstructing the event
with the help of the memories, but able to experience it
independently.
Turning the Wheel of Ages
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (Revised) page 77
Mind 3 or 4, Spirit 1, Time 2
This rote allows an Akashic to experience the past of
other Mages, including their past lives. Mind 3 suffices
for willing targets and other Akashics, Mind 4 is
necessary otherwise.
View the Scattered Lotus Petals
Tradition Book: Euthanatos (Revised) page 60
Time 2, Entropy 1, optional Correspondence 2
Using Entropy, the Euthanatos can follow several
threads of fate and see multiple possible futures, with
each success revealing one possibility.
Scrying
While Espionage is about seeing things that are hidden
and often involves Scrying, Scrying itself is the ability
to see things that are far away.
Area Scan
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 41
Correspondence 3
The Void Engineer can perceive several places at
once.
Auric Trail
Infinite Tapestry page 181
Correspondence 1 or 2, Prime 1, Spirit 1 or 2
This rote allows a Mage to track a Mage or spirit (with
Spirit 2) wherever they go, on Earth or in the Umbra.
This tracks the target by its resonance and is easier if the
target has particularly strong resonance. The rote is
much harder on Earth as resonance fades more quickly
there than in the Umbra. Correspondence 2 is required
if the target reforms elsewhere (spirits) or teleports
(Mages).
Check the Corners
Technocracy: New World Order page 43
Correspondence 2
Via parabolic microphones, thermal detectors and
motion sensors, a New World Order Agent can see
around corners and through walls.
Correspondence Sensing
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 185
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 159
Correspondence 2
This rote allows the Mage to build a connection
between their senses and a desired location. This can
34 Enlightened Grimoire
take the form of scrying: where the Mage can view a
location remotely. It can also take the form of an active
defense, where the Mage watches for others attempting
to build connections to the location and prepares to
counter their efforts.
Distant Sight
The Swashbuckler's Handbook page 91
Correspondence 2, optional Time 2
This rote allows the user to scry a distant location.
With Time added in, the Mage can also see the past or
future of the distant location.
Divided Sight
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 186
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 190
Correspondence 3
Though true co-location is still beyond them, the
Mage can perceive multiple locations at the same time.
Filter All-Space
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 186
Technocracy: New World Order page 44 (as Dragnet)
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 190
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 160
Correspondence 3, optional Mind 1
At this level of Correspondence, a Mage can search
the universe for an object or creature, scanning
everywhere simultaneously rather than having to search
manually. Without Mind 1, the Mage may have trouble
understanding what they see.
Geometric Jars
Artisan's Handbook page 51
Correspondence 2, optional Forces 1
By setting up a collection of jars filled with water in
an area and watching the ripples on the surface, the
Mage can derive information about the subject area.
With Forces, the echoes that cause the ripples can be
heard.
Heat Seeking
Technocracy: New World Order page 48
Divination and Fate 35
Correspondence 2, Life 1, Forces 1
With the aid of surveillance devices that can
track people by temperature, the New World
Order can track people inside a
building, determine the number of
individuals in the group.
Heat Trace
Hidden Lore page 17
Time 2, Forces 1
This rote uses the path of warm air
left in the wake of a person moving
around to track their past movements.
Map the True Way
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani
page 43
Correspondence 2, Matter 2 or Prime 2
By entering a trance and drawing a
map, an Ahl-i-Batin Mage can find a
person, place or object.
Open/Close Window
Mage: The Ascension Second
Edition page 189
Correspondence 2
Allows the Mage to scry
on a distant location.
Scan Non-Local Universe
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 42
Dimensional Science 2, Correspondence 2
This allows the Void Engineers to perceive any
location in the Umbra.
Scrying
Book of Shadows page 140
Correspondence 2, Spirit 1
During a drumming frenzy, the
Dreamspeaker can see other
places, both in the physical and
the spirit worlds. Though
normally limited to places the
Dreamspeaker has been or
knows somewhat, they can smoothly
move perceptions to investigate new
locations.
Seizing the Forgotten
Order of Reason page 66
Correspondence 2
Originating among the Gabrielites and
Craftmasons, the Mage investigates an
area where an object has disappeared and
turns up evidence (at least evidence that
Mages will recognize) if an object has
been disturbed via Correspondence
magick. That tampering occurred can
be proven with two successes, more
may give hints about who did it or
where they are.
Stalking the Void
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page
188
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 190
Correspondence 3
An advanced form of Open/Close Window, this
allows the Mage to track any irregularity back to its
source.
36 Enlightened Grimoire
Elemental Magick
Elemental magick is some of the flashiest magick
around. And some of the most vulgar. Many, many
effects in this chapter are almost never coincidental, but
still, many Mages look forward to the day when they can
finally cut loose with it.
This chapter is divided by element, starting with General
which works with multiple elements, and then
Earth, Electricity, Fire and Heat, Light, and Water and
Weather.
General
While most Elemental rotes focus on a specific element,
some of them work on a set of them, often depending
on the Mage's paradigm.
Anger in the Land
Book of Crafts page 74
Spirit 3 or 4, Matter 3 or Forces 3, Prime 2;
This rote allows a Kopa Loei to summon forth an
elemental by chanting near a large volume of the
element in question. Matter is needed for an Earth
elemental, Forces for a Fire, Water or Air elemental.
Spirit 4 allows the Mage to call a more powerful
elemental spirit to inhabit the material.
Banish Elemental
Hidden Lore page 17
Forces 2, Spirit 2
This rote is a direct attack that only works against
elemental spirits. It deals aggravated damage to
materialized elementals and reduces Power for those in
the Umbra.
Cycle of the Five Agents
Dragons of the East page 59
Forces 3, Matter 2, Prime 2
The Wu Lung can create or destroy any of the five
elements according to their cycle. A flame can be
converted to soil, for example. This allows general
elemental transmutation, though in the Wu Lung
paradigm, only along the cycle of creation or
destruction.
Time Lock
Tradition Book: Order of Hermes (First Edition) page 66
38 Enlightened Grimoire
Time 4, Forces 2 or 3, optional Prime 2
A Hermetic Adept of Time can pre-set a force to be
infused to be removed from an area in advance. Forces
2 for simple forces, Forces 3 for more complex ones, and
Prime 2 if it must be created.
No Surrender
Book of Crafts page 89
Forces 5 or Entropy 4, Prime 2;
A last-ditch rite to prevent any group of Sisters of
Hippolyta from being conquered, this unleashes
earthquakes, firestorms, plagues or explosions that
demolish their conclave and kill everyone in it.
Rouse the Dragon
Dragons of the East page 58
Forces 5, Matter 5, Prime 4, Spirit 4
By burning hundreds of charms and appeasing their
ancestors with a feast, a Wu Lung can create a dragon
of jade, paper or gold. Then, they paint red dots on the
eyes and ritually awaken it. This turns the very landscape
against the Wu Lung's enemies, it may cause a tidal
wave, earthquake, volcanic eruption or hurricane,
depending on the dragon being awoken, not just the
figuring, but the sleeping dragon inhabiting the
geography of the area.
Yao Su Dragon Thunder
Book of Crafts page 135
Forces 3 or Matter 3, Spirit 2, Prime 2
Elemental Magick 39
This rote allows a Wu Lung to make a direct attack at
anything, physical or ephemera, using some element,
such as a fireball, a thunderbolt, a shower of molten
metal, etc.
Earth
Earth is one of the most fundamental elements. Here,
it covers everything from soil and rocks to the force of
gravity.
Cuicuilco's Demise
Dead Magic page 74
Forces 5, Matter 4
The great city of Cuicuilco was the most powerful in
Mexican Central Highlands until it was destroyed by a
volcano in 150. The Mage must sacrifice a human being,
either slaughtering them near the volcano or throwing
them in, to cause a volcanic eruption to occur. This
requires at least 20 successes. Fewer can cause
Earthquakes and smaller lava flows, however.
Embracing the Earth Mother
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 196
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 199
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 167
Forces 4
This rote focuses gravity against a target, making them
feel as though they weigh significantly more, multiplied
by the number of successes plus one.
Pele Wai'ula (Pele's Blood)
Dead Magic 2 page 29
Correspondence 3, Forces 3 or 4, Matter 2
Polynesian Mages have a deep familiarity with the
forces of volcanism. With Forces 3, they can open a
volcanic fissure, while Forces 4 allows them to cause a
full-scale volcanic eruption.
Pele's Wrath
Book of Crafts page 74
Forces 4
A powerful Kopa Loei can use a chunk of lava to
redirect the power of a volcano into a small eruption.
TWACI
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (Revised) page 66
Correspondence 3, Forces 3, Mind 2
Short for "The Walls Are Closing In" and
pronounced "th-whacky", the Reality Coder uses this
rote to warp gravity and space, and to create a sense of
creeping doom in the target. This rote paralyzes the
target with fear, makes the walls appear to literally be
closing in, and causes cumulative damage of one die of
bashing damage up to a maximum of 10 dice.
Electricity
Electricity used to be a rare element to encounter and
was often classified as a type of fire when it was. Now,
civilization runs on electricity, it is far more central, and
Mages have started exploring what it can do in much
greater detail.
Arc
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (Revised) page 65
Correspondence 2, Forces 2
Cyberpunks are rarely without weapons in modern
cities, and this rote is why. It allows them to draw
electricity from the power grid and turn it into an arc of
electricity attacking their target.
Call Lightning
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 195
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 199
Forces 3
During a thunderstorm, a Mage can use this rote to
route a lightning bolt from the clouds to a target.
Discharge Static
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 195
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 198
Forces 2
40 Enlightened Grimoire
This rote causes the static electricity in the air,
attacking a target.
Electrical Chaos
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 166
Forces 2
Diverts the usual flow of electricity into a target. If
living, it is a damaging attack, if not, then the device
takes electrical damage.
Lightning Gateway
Tradition Book: Order of Hermes (First Edition) page 65
Forces 3, Correspondence 2, Prime 2
This rote is similar to Ignis, it conjures a Forces attack
from nothing, but it also can ignore barriers, striking
hidden targets.
Pulse of the Electro-Stream
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 223
Forces 3, Prime 2
This rote creates a strong electrical pulse and directs
it at the target. Humans take standard damage,
electronics overload.
Fire and Heat
A classical element in many cultures throughout the
world, conquering fire is arguably what kickstarted human
civilization. Mages often use it primarily for combat,
but manipulate it in many, many ways.
Akua Kumu Haka (Guided Fireball)
Dead Magic 2 page 26
Forces 3, Prime 2, Spirit 3, optional Correspondence 2
Summons a fire spirit and a fireball for it to inhabit.
The spirit guides the fireball to its target at high speed.
Awaken Flame
The Spirit Ways page 87
Forces 2 or 3, Spirit 3, optional Prime 2
Awakens the spirit of a flame. These spirits are usually
talkative, hungry and volatile. With Prime and Forces 3,
the fire can be created and awakened, otherwise the
shaman needs pre-existing flame.
Balefire
Infernalism: The Path of Screams page 86
Forces 3, Spirit 3, Prime 2
Not actually fire, but rather a scalding blob of
ephemera from something resembling a literal hell.
When it encounters living flesh, it burns like fire, but
cannot be soaked without Life 3/Prime 2. The flames
burn until all fuel is consumed, and any injuries take
twice as long as usual to heal and leave nasty scars.
Ball of Abysmal Flames
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 223
Tradition Book: Order of Hermes (First Edition) page 67
Forces 5, Prime 4 or 5, Time 4, Matter 3
One of the most powerful combat rotes in the
Hermetic arsenal, Ball of Abysmal Flames leeches
Quintessence from the surrounding area and ignites it,
fueling a flame that sucks in the air surrounding it and
grows stronger until it explodes in a firestorm. Prime 5
allows it to draw fuel from living beings, not just
inanimate objects as with Prime 4, Matter compresses it
into a small ball of flames and Time releases that ball's
destructive capacity at a chosen time, hopefully allowing
the Mage time to get to safety.
It was not an exaggeration when certain modern
Hermetics nicknamed this rote "The Nuke."
Betrayal of the Burning Arrow
Tradition Book: Order of Hermes (Revised) page 66
Forces 3, Correspondence 1
By breaking a glass or crystal arrowhead inscribed with
the Enochian symbol for the number 8, an ill-omened
number according to many Hermetics, a Hermetic Mage
chooses a bullet in a gun within line of sight and
converts kinetic energy to heat. When the bullet is fired,
it explodes turning into a Forces attack on the holder of
the gun.
Devouring Gullet of Flame
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page 87
Forces 4, Prime 2
The Taftani most often trigger this effect by forging a
ring of copper and brass and then throwing it at their
Elemental Magick 41
enemies while speaking the trigger word. This causes the
ring itself to turn into a tunnel of flame, sucking the
Taftani's enemies into it. Evading this tunnel without
magick requires a difficulty 9 Dexterity + Athletics roll.
Forces damage is assessed each turn that the target is
within the tunnel, which for each success is five feet in
diameter and five feet deep.
Dragonstorm
Mage: The Sorcerer's Crusade page 273
Forces 4 or 5, Prime 4 or 5
A refined version of Greek fire, Dragonstorm is a fire
that can consume anything and everything. Forces
creates a superhot flame while Prime draws the
quintessence out of everything in the area to fuel it.
Forces 5 doubles the blast radius. The Prime 4 version
does successes x 3 aggravated damage and the Prime 5
version does x 4 and can overwhelm flame resistance,
such as that possessed by dragons.
Eternal Flame
Tradition Book: Celestial Chorus page 65
Prime 3, Forces 2
With at least 10 successes, this rote allows a Chorister
to pass a Quintessence stream (such as from a Node)
through a flame to keep it burning. The Quintessence
is not consumed, and may be used for other things, but
if the flow stops, the flame does as well.
Fire Rune
Dead Magic 2 page 99
Forces 3 or Matter 5
This rune douses a flame.
Friction Curse
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 166
Forces 3
Converts kinetic energy to heat, so that the faster an
object goes, the hotter it becomes and the more damage
it takes.
Gabriel's Embrace
Blood Treachery page 88
Correspondence 2, Matter 2 or Life 5, Prime 2, Forces 3
42 Enlightened Grimoire
This rote converts the air around the target (Matter)
or the target's flesh itself (Life) into a burning flame.
The Mage calls upon Gabriel, the Archangel of Fire, and
keys the pentacle of Mercury to the victim (via some
Correspondence connection).
Hermes' Brand
Blood Treachery page 89
Entropy 1, Prime 2, Forces 3, Time 4
A Hermetic uses Entropy 1 and Time 4 to enchant
their (or another's) blood creating a hanging Prime
2/Forces 3 effect which takes place a fixed amount of
time after the blood is ingested by a Vampire. Each
blood point consumed from the target of this rote bursts
into flame inside the Vampire for two health levels of
aggravated damage, and if the Vampire survives, they
lose a blood point for each point that exploded (and
those are also lost).
Ignis
Tradition Book: Order of Hermes (First Edition) page 65
Forces 3, Prime 2
An effect beloved of House Flambeau, Ignis conjures
flames from nothing at the target.
Inferno
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 167
Forces 5
Converts all the light and sound in an area into heat,
causing it to burst into flame.
Lotus Bloom
Book of Crafts page 119
Forces 3
This requires that the Footbind rote has been
performed.
This vulgar Wu-Keng rote causes a lotus to blossom
from the caster's bound feed, and then explode,
immolating the Mage's foes.
Phlogiston Manipulation
Tradition Book: Order of Hermes (First Edition) page 66
Forces 3, Life 3 or Matter 3, Prime 2
Though phlogiston has been discredited by
mainstream scientists, Hermetics can manipulate it in
the living (with Life) and in inanimate objects (with
Matter) to either ignite an object (extracting the
phlogiston) or to restore something that has been
burned (inserting new phlogiston).
Phlogiston Phlux
Dead Magic page 107
Matter 2
Ancient alchemy asserted that fire was the release of
phlogiston from a substance. With this rote, a Mage can
increase or decrease the amount in an object, which will
cause it to burn longer or shorter.
Pop Goes the Weasel
Orphan's Survival Guide page 129
Life 3, Forces 2, Prime 2
The Mage immobilizes the victim and makes an
extended roll. The target suffers extreme pain as their
body is heated up. At the end of the effect, all the
damage is applied as aggravated damage, usually killing
the victim in a burst of flame.
Possess Flame
The Spirit Ways page 88
Forces 2 or 4, Mind 4, optional Prime 2
The shaman can take control of a fire (or create one
that they are in control of with Prime and Forces 4).
During this time, the shaman's consciousness inhabits
the flame, and their body lies in a trance. Larger flames,
the side of buildings, require Forces 4. If still inside the
fire when it is extinguished, the Mage loses a point of
Willpower.
Proof against Immolation
Book of Crafts page 42
Matter 3, Prime 2
An alchemist can develop a smoke they can inhale
which protects their body from flame and heat.
Shih-Huang-Ti's Marvelous Game
Book of Crafts page 119
Life 3, Forces 2, optional Correspondence 2
The Wu-Keng usually reserve this attack for their
enemies, the Wu Lung, but sometimes use it on others.
This rote boils the victim alive in their skin.
Elemental Magick 43
Wildfire
Tradition Book: Order of Hermes (Revised) page 68
Entropy 2, Forces 2
By lighting a fire at the intersection of two interlocked
pentacles, for Mars and Pluto, the Mage warps
probability to make everything just happen to break
correctly for the flame to grow out of control.
Wrath of Heaven
Tradition Book: Celestial Chorus page 65
Forces 4, Prime 2
This Chorister rote is traditionally used in extreme
combat situations. It can create nearly any
manifestation of Forces traditionally associated with the
divine, the most common of which are ball lightning
and a pillar of fire.
Light
Like fire, light is one of the oldest elements that Mages
access. It's often omitted from lists of elements, and
considered just as a derivative of fire, but modern theory
puts it as simpler. Mages manipulate light for many reasons,
from just lighting up a dark place to summoning
sunlight to incinerate vampires.
Fiat Lux
Tradition Book: Celestial Chorus (First Edition) page 64
Forces 2 or 3, Prime 2
Arguably one of the oldest rotes in existence, the
weaker version enhances a light source and the strong
creates one.
Filter'd Lantern-Light
Artisan's Handbook page 49
Forces 2
Can create various forms of light from a lantern.
Among the effects possible are a diffuse, colored light
with an obvious origin, a strong colored beam of light,
or even burning hot but dull, so that little illumination
is offered but the lantern acts as a heat source.
Flash
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (First Edition) page 62
(as Flash-Bomb Stunt)
Order of Reason page 72
Forces 3
An Artificer rote, the user prepares a piece of paper to
ignite rapidly creating a bright flash of light from a fire.
This burst of light can blind anyone caught unaware
(Stamina diff 8 to avoid) and under the right
circumstances, may trigger panic in Vampires.
Glorious Sword of Heaven
Blood Treachery page 89
Correspondence 2, Forces 2 or Correspondence 4, Forces 4
From the minor and odd House Castrovinci, this rote
uses an Enochian supplication to Michael the warrior
Archangel and patron of the Sun, along with pentacles
of Mars, to direct a lance of sunlight from somewhere
on Earth to a Vampire. The rank 2 version of this rote
summons a focused beam of sunlight that must target a
Vampire's exposed flesh, but the rank 4 version can
draw sunlight into an area as large as a city block, which
almost certainly will destroy Vampires in that area
Laser Enhancement
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 42
Forces 2
This allows the Technomage the ability to strengthen
lasers by improving the focus of light. Thus, a laser
pointer can become a deadly weapon.
Laser Production
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 42
Forces 3, Prime 2
A stronger version of Laser Enhancement, this causes
the laser to do aggravated damage.
Tsuiho - The Fires of Heaven
Dragons of the East page 60
Correspondence 4
The Wu Lung can truly show their enemies the power
of the Sun, by opening a gateway between Earth and the
Sun's photosphere. This requires a huge number of
successes, at least 15. As the Wu Lung must stand in the
Jade Gate that the fire will come from, they must
sacrifice themselves to achieve this effect.
Water and Weather
Two of the classical Greek elements, water and air,
combine to make the weather. With them, a Mage can
call and dismiss storms, some of the most powerful
forces of nature. At a simpler level, just being able to
find water can be lifesaving.
'Ahiu Nalu (Rogue Wave)
Dead Magic 2 page 26
Entropy 2, Forces 2;
Entropy 3;
Correspondence 2, Matter 2, Prime 2
Mighty Polynesian mages would dual on the ocean,
and a common weapon was the water itself, used as a
big wave, created either by tampering with probability,
with the forces the form a wave, or the water directly.
Calling the Wind Lords
Tradition Book: Verbena (First Edition) page 64
Forces 2, Spirit 2
The Verbena summons spirits of the winds, who
then influence the weather for them. More successes
allow for greater changes to the weather.
Cloud Cover
Order of Reason page 108
Forces 5
When piloting a skyrigger, this allows the Mage to
hide its movements above clouds to protect it from
Sleeper eyes. A failure may require Pilot Skyrigger to
recover from, success allows the ship to remain hidden.
Dousing
Tradition Book: Verbena (First Edition) page 64
Life 1, Correspondence 1
The Verbena can attempt to find water using a
forked stick (hazel is preferred). They do this by sensing
the minute life forms in the water, rather than seeking
the water itself.
Dowsing
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page 43
Correspondence 2, Forces 2, Matter 1
With Dowsing, nothing is hidden from the Mage.
When searching for a substance, particularly water, this
rote finds it and brings it (or any other liquid) to the
surface.
Heenalu (Wave Walking)
Dead Magic 2 page 27
Forces 2 or Matter 2
This rote allows a Mage to walk on the surface of
water, either through levitation or by strengthening the
water's surface itself.
Mahu (Steam)
Dead Magic 2 page 28
Elemental Magick 45
Forces 2, Prime 2
This rote converts water directly to steam, scalding
anyone caught in it.
Sing Down the Rain
Dead Magic page 30
Matter 3, Forces 2
The Mage sings out a short poem or song to call to
the ghosts that ride the clouds. This nudges the clouds
into the desired position and pulls the moisture out into
rain.
Storm Rune
Dead Magic 2 page 99
Entropy 3, Forces 3
This rune allows the Mage to calm storms and waves
at sea.
Tempest in a Teapot
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 199
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 168
Forces 5
While Weather Working can manipulate existing
storms, Tempest in a Teapot can create a storm out of
nothing, with more successes indicating more power in
the storm.
Waipuilani (Waterspout)
Dead Magic 2 page 29
Forces 3
If there are clouds, this manipulates the local weather
to create a waterspout, a tornado over open water.
Otherwise, the Mage can use the power of Forces
directly to accomplish the same goal.
Weather Working
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 167 (as Storm Watch)
Dead Magic 2 page 103
Forces 4
This rote manipulates the weather, and can cause
rapid changes such as heat waves, clearing a cloudy day,
etc.
Energy-Work
Energy-Work is essentially working with pure magick.
While even elemental magick filters it through flame or
wind, with energy-work the raw stuff of reality is being
directly used.
This leads to a subdivision into Meta-Magick which
are effects that primarily are used to affect other magick
or to prepare things for magick, Nodes which are
sources of Quintessence and Tass. With these resources,
you can even accomplish Reality Manipulation
directly, making things become more or less real as you
desire. The consequences of doing magick are Resonance
and Synergy. And finally, one of the most effective
ways to get more Quintessence in a hurry is Sacrifice,
and one of the oldest, too.
Meta-Magick
Magick can be used to affect literally anything. Even
magick itself. The effects here prepare things to be imbued
with magick, act as countermagick, or otherwise
alter the way that magick works.
Body of Light
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 183
Prime 2
This creates a body (usually based on an idealized
version of the Mage) of pure Quintessence. It can be
used directly as armor, or as a form that can travel to
other realms without the mage, such as with Astral
Projection.
Cold Water's Blessing
Dead Magic page 26
Matter 2, Prime 2
Clean water supports life, and acts as a protection
against evil. By hitting the target with cold water
(including tricking them into entering a river), the Mage
channels the water's power to support life and washes
away evil magick, unweaving any malign magic on the
target.
Contingent Effect
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 193
Time 4
Allows the Mage to set a trigger for an effect. If done,
the effect hangs, ready to fire, but only does so when the
trigger occurs.
Counterspell Rune
48 Enlightened Grimoire
Dead Magic 2 page 98
Various
This Rune acts as Countermagick.
Divert Prime Force
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 45
Prime 2
This allows a Void Engineer to tap a source of
Quintessence (including their own avatar), to power an
effect.
Enchant Life
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 184
Prime 3
Allows the Mage to infuse a living being with
Quintessence, making it seem more real and anchoring
it in reality. Additionally, this causes the creature's
natural weapons to do aggravated damage, as they can
now directly attack a Pattern. This requires the
expenditure of a point of Quintessence.
Master's Enchantment
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 185
Prime 5
A Master of Prime may enchant a living being, a place
or a time. In the case of a living being, this creates a
Relic, a sort of living Talisman. For a place it creates a
Node and for time a Juncture (which functions similarly
to a Node). Creating a Node requires a massive number
of successes beyond duration and area of effect.
Parma Magica
Tradition Book: Order of Hermes (First Edition) page 65
Prime 3
It is not an exaggeration to call Parma Magica the
greatest accomplishment of Bonisagus himself, nor to
say that the rote is responsible for the creation of the
Order of Hermes itself. By advancing countermagick
significantly, it allowed Hermetics to meet and form
alliances before they had developed trust.
This rote allows the Hermetic to store up to two
points of Quintessence per success which can be used
for countermagick and unweaving the effects of others.
These Quintessence points no longer count towards the
Mage's limit but are limited by how much Quintessence
the Mage can carry.
Programmed Event
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 219
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 223
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 193
Time 4
An Adept of Time can stop time completely in a small
area and set a time when it will resume. Objects and
people (other than those the Mage makes immune) are
frozen so long as no one outside the effect comes into
contact with anything inside it.
Watch the Weaving
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 182
Prime 1
This allows the Mage to see effects as they are being formed, in a
way compatible with their paradigm. For instance, Hermetics have a
formalized system where different spheres and intentions yield different
colors and shapes of magick.
Nodes
Wellsprings of the energy of reality, Mages use Nodes
as a power source, and will fight each other over valuable
ones. These rotes allow Mages to find Nodes, use
Nodes, and in extreme cases, damage, destroy and even
create Nodes.
Awaken the Sleeping Earth
Book of Chantries page 149
Prime 3, Matter 3
When a Mage finds a Node that is dormant, they can
tap it. This rote opens a channel into the Node and
allows the Quintessence to flow from it into some vessel.
Drain Node
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 46
Prime 4
This drains all the Quintessence from a Node and
puts it into a dormant state. If awoken, the Node will
return to normal.
Energy-Work 49
Glorious Is the Temple
Artisan's Handbook page 52
Prime 3, Mind 2
Allows the Mage to distribute quintessence from a
Node to anyone assisting in the ritual.
Leying of the Line
Book of Chantries page 149
Prime 3, Matter 3
The Mage can use this rote to create roughly a mile of
ley line per success. The line transfers Quintessence
from a Node to whatever is at the end of the line, usually
a Chantry. Of course, Quintessence can be drawn from
the Node itself, cutting off the supply.
Locate Quintessence Flow
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 45
Prime 1
This allows Void Engineers to trace Quintessence
flows back to the Node that they originate at.
Node Raider
Guide to the Traditions page 280
Prime 3
This rote allows the Mage to pull Quintessence out of
a Node roughly, in a way that can damage the Node.
Usually used either in desperation or as an attack on an
enemy's resources, this rote gives the Mage one point of
Quintessence per success, which can be redirected into
a Periapt if the Mage has one. The node, however, gives
no Quintessence or Tass for a number of days equal to
the number of successes. For every ten successes, the
Node loses one level of power permanently, and if it
drops to zero, it is destroyed.
Primal Credit Rating
Convention Book: Syndicate (Revised) page 75
Data 3, Primal Utility 3, Entropy 2
The Syndicate agent can make the target have a hard
time drawing Primal Energy from technological sources.
For the duration, each success devoted to this effect
prevents the absorption of one point of Primal Energy
every time the target might collect it from a source that
has Rank 1 Data sympathy.
Prime Location
Book of Shadows page 145
Correspondence 1 or 2, Prime 1
50 Enlightened Grimoire
Mages understand how important location is, almost
as much as realtors. This rote allows the Mage to find
the specific location of a Node. With Correspondence
1, it must be nearby, with Correspondence 2 it can be
anywhere.
Sense Node
Technocracy: New World Order page 48
Correspondence 2, Prime 1
With the proper equipment, a Watcher can detect if
a building contains a Node.
Tap Node
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 45
Prime 3
This allows the Void Engineer to draw power from a
Node, to the point where it is temporarily useless. This
requires a number of successes proportional to the
strength of the Node being tapped.
Terminal Sanitization
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 46
Prime 5
When a Node has been corrupted by Nephandic
ritual or a Marauder, this essentially turns it off until its
resonance has been scrubbed.
Wellspring
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 185
Prime 4
At a location with Resonance particularly in tune with
the Mage, this rote allows the Mage to draw some
Quintessence from this spot, effectively using it as a
Node.
Quintessence and Tass
If Nodes are the source of magickal power, Quintessence
is the energy itself, and Tass is its material form.
These rotes move Quintessence around, whether it's between
people or a person and a Node.
Bond of Blood
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 211
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 215
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 183
Prime 3
A Disciple of Prime can pull Quintessence directly
out of a Node, out of a willing target, or can reverse
these, placing Quintessence in the Node or gifting
Quintessence to an ally.
The Burning Lotus
Tradition Book: Euthanatos (First Edition) page 68
Prime 5, Entropy 4, Forces 3, optional Spirit 2, optional Mind 3
A suicide maneuver that is rarely used, the
Euthanatos pulls all the Quintessence they can, from
their body, the surrounding area, anything at all. This
Quintessence then fuels a massive storm of elemental
fury that consumes and degrades anything in its path for
20 feet per success.
With Spirit, this rote can be sent across the Gauntlet
and with Mind the Mage sends out a final message
before being consumed.
Convert Node to Tass
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 46
Prime 3
Despite the name, this procedure doesn't actually
remove the Node, but rather draws all the available
Quintessence from it and store it in devices that use
Tass to power their effects, or even store it directly as
Tass.
Cup of Joe
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 62
Prime 3
A Hollow One can use this rote to transfer a number
of points of Quintessence up to their Arete into a
caffeinated beverage, which then are transferred to
whoever drinks it.
Drain Tass
Order of Reason page 83
Prime 3
Energy-Work 51
Allows the Mage to draw Tass from a node in excess
of their avatar rating.
Economic Warfare
Convention Book: Syndicate (Revised) page 83
Primal Utility 4
For a period of time, each success decreases the
target's Resources background by one. If enough
successes are spent to make the duration permanent,
two successes are needed to decrease Resources
permanently by one.
Footbind
Book of Crafts page 119
Prime 3, Life 2, Forces 2
This excruciatingly painful and debilitating ritual is
often performed on Wu-Keng when they join the craft.
The Wu-Keng has all the difficulties that footbinding
causes, including deformed feet, often to the point of
being unable to walk unaided. In exchange, the
wrappings used allow the Mage to draw Quintessence
from the surroundings into their bindings, and use that
Quintessence as needed.
Fount of Paradise
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 185
Prime 5
With Master of Prime, a Mage can draw Quintessence
from the Universe at large, not needing to be in any
special place to obtain it.
The Hand of the Siphoner
Book of Chantries page 149
Prime 3, Matter 1
By touching the physical object tied to a Node, the
Mage can draw Quintessence from it at one point per
success. This does not work on dormant Nodes.
Hymn of Beatific Harmony
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 226
Prime 3, Correspondence 3
This rote allows Quintessence to be sent anywhere on
Earth.
Primal Infusion
52 Enlightened Grimoire
Technocracy: Progenitors page 44 (as Create Primessence
Drug)
Convention Book: Progenitors (Revised) page 74
Life 3, Prime 3
The recipient of this effect is treated for three to six
months with specialized drugs and chemicals. The result
is that every week they generate a point of Prime Energy,
which causes one health level of damage that cannot be
healed while the Prime Energy is held. They can hold a
one point of Prime Energy per dot of Stamina.
Furthermore, any roll to resist disease has a difficulty
increase of two, as this procedure weakens the body
significantly.
Primal Net
Technocracy: Progenitors page 46 (as Quintessence Net)
Convention Book: Progenitors (Revised) page 74
Life 2, Matter 2, Prime 2
This procedure is performed at the level of an entire
hospital and siphons off a small amount of Prime
Energy from people in persistent vegetative states or
long-term intensive care. It slightly decreases the
recovery rate for coma patients. This works distressingly
well when paired with Primal Infusion.
Radiate Prime Energy
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 226
Prime 3, Entropy 2
This rote allows the Mage to force Quintessence out
of a target (limited by the target's avatar rating).
Recharge Device
Technocracy: Iteration X page 48
Prime 3
With this procedure, Technocratic Devices can be
recharged, infusing Primal Energy into them.
Recharge Gift
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 212
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 215
Prime 5
Quintessence flows through everything, and with this
rote, a Mage can consume those Patterns to refill their
Quintessence store.
The Rush
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 210
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 214
Prime 1
This rote allows the Mage to store more Quintessence
than their avatar rating.
Sense Quintessence
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 210
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 214
Prime 1
This rote allows the Mage to sense free Quintessence,
particularly any source of Quintessence or any magickal
effect.
Spinning Thread
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page 91
Forces 3 or Matter 3, Prime 2, Spirit 2
Allows the Weaver to pull esoteric things, such as "the
shriek of a thrice cursed ifrit" and convert it into a
physical form, Tass.
Reality Manipulation
Some of the most powerful applications of Energy-
Work call under Reality Manipulation. Here, Paradox
can be delayed or shunted off onto someone else and
Patterns can be directly unmade or perfected.
Delay Paradox
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page 89
Prime 3, Spirit 3, Time 3
The Taftani tend to accrue large amounts of paradox.
Their very survival has depended on being able to find
ways to mitigate the damage that it does. With this rote,
the Taftani can delay the full backlash, and cause their
Paradox to accrue at a rate of at most one per day, with
a number of days equal to the number of successes in
between points. This spreads out the damage and allows
the Taftani to avoid a single, large paradox backlash.
Flames of Purification
Energy-Work 53
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 211
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 215
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 184
Prime 4
The Flames of Purification is a direct attack on the
target's Pattern, attempting to dissolve the Pattern and
return the Quintessence that makes it up to the
universe. Optionally, some of that Quintessence can be
captured by the Mage for other purposes.
Healthy Skepticism
Guide to the Technocracy page 209
Entropy 3, Mind 2
The Technocrat using this provides a logical
explanation for why some supernatural effect is
impossible, causing them to count as a witness for vulgar
mystical effects.
Holy Stroke
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 183
Prime 2
By spending a point of Quintessence, the Mage can
attack something directly with a bolt of pure, primal
energy.
Matter-Energy Converter
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 48
Prime 2 or 5
This Procedure is focused through an energy weapon
and disrupts Life Patterns. The simpler version merely
causes effects like Rubbing of Bones, which is painful
but causes no damage. The more advanced version can
directly destroy a living Pattern.
Paradox Ward
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 185
Prime 5
The Master of Prime can invest Quintessence into an
object, doing so with great care and attention to detail,
and in doing so, smooth out the universe for them,
canceling out Paradox that they have (or will)
accumulate.
Penance for the Sicarii
Tradition Book: Celestial Chorus (Revised) page 58
Prime 4, Correspondence 3, optional Time 4
In Chorister legends, there are two groups of monks,
White and Red. The Red Monks brought justice and
righteousness to the world without fear, because the
White Monks took the paradox intended for them. This
rote allows a Mage to take on another's paradox as it
hits. With Time, the effect can be cast well in advance
rather than needing to cast it at the time.
Quintessence Blast
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 212
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 215
Prime 5
By supercharging a crystal with Quintessence, a
Master of Prime is capable of (temporarily) drawing in
and dispelling a Paradox Spirit. The crystal is destroyed,
and the Mage who does this will surely be remembered
by that Paradox Spirit.
Spirit Pilgrimage
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 226
Prime 5, Life 3
Masters of Prime can stop the flow of Quintessence to
parts of their body, causing them to become
incorporeal.
Resonance and Synergy
Every action has an equal and opposite reaction. Or,
in more general terms: actions have consequences.
When a Mage changes Reality, Reality change the Mage
a bit as well. Resonance and Synergy are both ways that
Reality and the Mage interact, and these rotes affect
them. The rules for Resonance and Synergy are presented
in The Book of Secrets pages 128-138.
Balancing the Furies
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (Revised) page 71
Prime 3 or 5
This allows the Akashic to temporarily change the
Mage's Resonance, or at Prime 5, pass it along to
another being.
Change the Resonance
54 Enlightened Grimoire
Book of Crafts page 41
Matter 2, Mind 2
This allows the Child of Knowledge to alter the
Resonance of an inanimate object.
Node Spike
Guide to the Traditions page 281
Prime 3, Mind 2 or 3
By performing a symbolically painful or poisonous act
at a Node, the Mage can turn that concentrated pain or
hate into a Resonance for the Node that makes it much
more difficult to use. Successes are split between
duration and strength, with the strength acting as an
empathic attack, causing anyone trying to use the Node
to feel intense pain, nausea and disorientation if they
fail a Willpower roll. With Mind 3, it becomes an actual
mental attack, causing damage to anyone trying to use
the Node.
Occlude the Seal of Power
Tradition Book: Order of Hermes (Revised) page 67
Prime 4, Mind 2, Matter 2
A rote originating among House Bonisagus but
spreading to the rest of the Order quickly, this allows
the Mage to temporarily storing their resonance in an
object. The Mage lights four pieces of frankincense,
breathes deeply 10 times while exhaling onto an object
made of some precious substance and speaks the
Enochian names of the spheres. At the end, they pass a
point of Quintessence into the object, and for the
duration of the effect one point of their resonance is on
that object.
Orgone Accumulator
Tradition Book: Sons of Ether (Revised) page 62
Prime 3 or 5
Some Etherites work with the Odyllic Force, stored as
Orgone, a representation of the emotional nature of the
universe, not just the physical. This allows them to
imbue their devices with Resonance. With Prime 3,
each success allows a focus to hold two Resonance traits
for the duration or until they are used. Prime 5 also
gives the benefits of the Fount of Paradise effect.
Psychic Impression
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 210
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 177
Mind 2
The Mage imparts an emotional signature to a
location, granting it a Resonance trait based on the
emotion imparted.
Tag
Digital Web page 99
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (Revised) page 64
Correspondence 2, Prime 3
This Chaotician rote marks a person as a criminal in
the eyes of the Virtual Adepts. The mark is unseen, but
noticeable in the target's Resonance. Each success
subtracts one from the difficulty to see it.
Sacrifice
In the ancient world, it was completely uncontroversial
that sacrifice lead to power. In some places, human
sacrifice was used, in others, animals. But one thing was
certain, that the loss of one thing could turn into the
gain of another.
The Ball Game
Dead Magic page 76
Life 2
By having the sacrifices play some sort of competitive
athletic game, the difficulty of the sacrifice is decreased
by one.
Blood for the Gods
Dead Magic page 75
Spirit 3, Life 2, Prime 1
Unlike Heart for Huitzilopochtli, Blood for the Gods
makes a sacrifice dedicated to an appropriate deity in
exchange for a boost of two to some Attribute or Talent
for the duration of the effect. This is a boon from a
spirit, bound into the Mage with Life rather than
acquired through the Better Body rote.
Blood of the Sacred King
Tradition Book: Verbena (Revised) page 65
Energy-Work 55
Prime 3
This rote allows the Verbena to sacrifice a person in
exchange for Quintessence. A Sleeper sacrificed this way
gives one Quintessence for each bashing or lethal health
level (so 14 in total for an average person).
If a Mage is sacrificed, this rote can restore a dying
Node. For each two dots of Arete, the Node gains one
point, rounded up if the Mage rolls any 10s, down
otherwise. A Mage sacrificed in this way cannot be
brought back by any means, does not become a ghost,
and cannot be contacted in any way. The only remnant
of the Mage is in the Resonance of the Node.
Cup of Itz
Dead Magic page 77
Life 2, Prime 1
Using a large, decorated bowl, the Mage pierces their
genitalia and allows blood to drain out into the bowl as
an offering to the gods. This allows them to gain
Quintessence as in Heart's Blood. The Life component
of the rote prevents the Mage from feeling the pain,
preventing wound penalties
Heart for Huitzilopochtli
Dead Magic page 74
Life 5, Spirit 5, Prime 5
For one of any number of possible reasons, the Aztecs
engaged in regular human sacrifice. This rote allows a
Mage who sacrifices a victim and tears out their heart to
generate three points of Quintessence for each success.
With five or more successes, the avatar itself of the
victim is destroyed to create this Quintessence. The
Mage gains Entropic synergy: often Death, but if used
as part of a fertility ritual, it could be Renewal.
Heart's Blood
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 214
Mage: The Sorcerer's Crusade page 269
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 182
Prime 1
The Mage can sacrifice their health for Quintessence,
at a rate of one point per health level of bashing damage
taken.
Kaumaha (Sacrifice)
Dead Magic 2 page 27
Prime 3, Spirit 2
By throwing a living being into a volcano, a Mage can
harvest the Quintessence given off by the sacrifice, as in
Lambs to the Slaughter.
Lambs to the Slaughter
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 184
Prime 3
Though self-sacrifice as in Heart's Blood is preferred
by most, a Mage can sacrifice others for Quintessence
just as they can sacrifice of themselves. This sacrifice can
be a material object, an animal, or even a person, but to
gain the Quintessence from this rote, the subject (if
intelligent) must be willing.
Midnight Oil
Order of Reason page 82
Prime 1
This rote allows a member of the Order of Reason to
sacrifice their health to get a boost of quintessence.
Self-Sacrifice
Tradition Book: Verbena (Revised) page 67
Prime 1
The Verbena may make a sacrifice to gain
Quintessence. By self-harming, such as cutting runes
into their flesh, the mage gains one point of
Quintessence for each level of bashing damage taken,
and an additional point for each lethal.
56 Enlightened Grimoire
Enhanced Combat
There are many ways for magick to enhance combat.
Fighting and warfare are as old as humanity, so it's no
surprise that Mages have refined their ability to make
violence work more in their favor.
This chapter begins with Utility rotes, which are useful
in combat but not tied to any particular technique.
Then it covers Cooperation, rotes that enhance the ability
of groups to work together. Then it turns to specific
aspects of combat: Martial Arts, Melee and Ranged
fighting.
Utility
There are many helpful rotes for combat that are beneficial
to everyone, no matter how they choose to fight.
Arrest the Flight of Arrows
Tradition Book: Verbena (Revised) page 64
Forces 2
This rote allows the Mage to stop missile weapons
from harming the Mage. Every success rolled is
subtracted from the attack roll for the missile, as the
kinetic energy of it is leeched away.
Crowdsourced Combat
Convention Book: Syndicate (Revised) page 72
Correspondence 2, Forces 1, Mind 1
Filtering the fighting techniques of recorded MMA
fights, martial arts training videos, military manuals and
police reports through Progenitor biomechanical
analyses and Iteration X tactical simulations, this
Procedure matches the technique to the situation at
hand for a Syndicate agent. Each success reduces the
difficulty of combat rolls for one ability of the Syndicate
Agent's by 1, and successes are divided between combat
abilities and then duration.
Infidel's Laughter
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page 89
Forces 2, Spirit 2
This rote allows the Taftani to reverse the momentum
of any attack that comes very close to them, causing
bullets and knives to bounce off them. With enough
successes, they even retrace their original paths, which
can cause bullets to hit the person who fired them.
Lucky Blow
58 Enlightened Grimoire
Order of Reason page 70
Entropy 2
This rote allows the Mage to detect weaknesses during
combat and exploit them. Against normal opponents,
successes can be used to decrease the difficulty on a
single attack roll or to bypass armor by finding a
location that isn't protected. Against non-human
opponents, it allows the Mage to find the opponents
weaknesses, allowing called shots even when the
physiology is unfamiliar.
Sense the Echo of the Dragon
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 226
Mind 3, Time 2
By meditating on an upcoming fight and the
opponent's style, this rote allows a Mage to predict their
opponent's movements in combat. In particular, it gives
additional dice on defensive maneuvers.
Spearcatcher Rune
Dead Magic 2 page 98
Correspondence 1, Time 3, optional Forces 3
This rune slows down time as the Mage sees a spear
coming for them, and they become acutely aware of the
location of each projectile. Each success allows them to
pluck one projectile from the air. Forces must be used
to do this with bullets, to dissipate the heat from the
bullets, or else use heat-resistant gloves.
Strategy
Order of Reason page 87
Time 2
By stopping and taking a moment to think, the Mage
gains a bonus of -1 difficulty per success on their next
attack in the combat, due to gaining an insight into
what their opponent is about to do and where they are
about to be.
Targeting Computation
Technocracy: Iteration X page 47
Order of Reason page 66 (as Targeting)
Artisan's Handbook page 46 (as Aiming Grid)
Correspondence 1
This allows an Iterator to locate and track their
enemies. This procedure removes cover penalties
Enhanced Combat 59
(except for full cover) and reduces the difficulty of the
next projectile attack on that target.
Time-Motion Study
Technocracy: Iteration X page 49
Correspondence 1, Time 1
This Procedure allows an Iterator to analyze their
movements and determine the most efficient way to
accomplish a task. It gives a bonus of one per success of
their next initiative roll.
Wearing the Bear Shirt
Dead Magic 2 page 104
Life 3, Mind 1, Spirit 4
Also known as berserking, this makes the Mage
terrifying in battle. The Mage channels the spirit of a
bear, borrowing its strength, stamina and ferocity. For
each success, the Mage adds one dot to Strength or
Stamina or may ignore a level of wound penalties for
the scene. Attributes may be increased to legendary
levels with this, but at the cost of Permanent Paradox
during the duration of the rote.
Wrath of God
Order of Reason page 82
Prime 2
This effect allows the Mage to spend quintessence to
turn the damage from an attack against a supernatural
creature from non-aggravated to aggravated damage.
Coordination
Nothing succeeds in combat like a group of people
working together as a single unit. Magick can be used
to make it easier to coordinate, to enhance the ability of
the group to do damage, and many other things.
Battle Rune
Dead Magic 2 page 99
Correspondence 3, Life 4, Mind 3
This rune turns a group of people into a coordinated
and formidable battle group. Each success adds a person
to the effect, bringing them to peak physical health,
healing all bashing damage at the end of each turn, and
halving damage penalties from lethal damage. They also
have their temporary Willpower replenished until the
end of the scene, at which point they return to their
previous level and then lose one.
Coordinated Fire
Convention Book: Void Engineers (Revised) page 85
Correspondence 1, Mind 2, Time 1
By linking several peoples' equipment together and
giving good information to their leader, Void Engineers
can combine their fire into a single attack. Each success
from the team leader allows one more person to be
involved in the effect, and then combine their Dexterity
+ Firearms or Energy Weapons into a single massive
dice pool (burst and fully automatic bonuses are only
added once), if the target can soak, it may soak once for
each weapon used.
Hail of Bullets
Technocracy: New World Order page 48
Time 3, Forces 2
This group Procedure causes a collection of New
World Order agents to fill the air with an unrealistic
number of bullets or lasers. Each member of the group
must be using a weapon that has been altered to increase
the rate of fire and each success gives an additional
attack to the group as a whole.
Legion's Life
Dead Magic page 106
Prime 3, Life 2
Requiring a group of at least twenty people who have
bonded closely (such as with common military training),
the Mage can use this bonding to siphon off
Quintessence from the group rather than from
individuals, not taking much from any single person.
For every twenty people in the group, the Mage can gain
one Quintessence without causing any harm. The Mage
can pull a maximum of one Quintessence per success
on this rote. This draw may be done once per day.
Marching Orders
Order of Reason page 78
Mind 1
This Artificer rote comes from attempting to quantify
everything involving in military matters. The Mage uses
60 Enlightened Grimoire
this rote before leading others into battle, and the
successes from it may be used at various points in that
battle to represent superior positioning and morale for
the Mage's troops.
Mind of the Ant Hill
Dead Magic page 107
Mind 4
The Romans were masters of military coordination,
and devised this technique. For every success, the group
has a die that any member can use in combat once.
Usually, it is prepared as an extended ritual before
battle, using war machines and siege engines as foci and
creating a very large pool for the group's use.
Martial Arts
Martial arts have long been associated with Magick,
and some rotes require them to be used. Several of
these rotes require the Akashic skill of Do, and without
it they cannot be used.
108 Plum Blossoms
Dragons of the East page 59
Forces 2, Correspondence 2
By practicing the 108 Plum Blossoms stances, the Wu
Lung can obtain preternatural balance. They will only
lose their balance on a frictionless surface.
Arashi-Waza
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (Revised) page 68
Correspondence 2, Forces 2, Time 3
This rote allows an Akashic to move quickly, spinning
to gather speed and power and then unleashing their
attack on enemies within range. Successes either are
spent to increase effective combat dice or allow targets
that are usually unreachable to be targeted, but
otherwise the Mage uses standard multiple-action rules.
Bullet Catch
Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition page 607
Forces 2, Life 2, Time 2
Enhanced Combat 61
A skilled martial artist can catch many weapons as
they are used against them. However, bullets can only
be caught that way through the enlightened martial art
of Do.
Dragon Fist
Book of Shadows page 147
Life 3, Prime 2, optional Forces 3
Required Do Maneuver: Punch or Kick
The Akashic focuses their Chi and their attacks do
aggravated damage. Each attack expends a point of
Quintessence. The version with just Life works on living
opponents by rupturing organs. The version with Forces
also causes their fists to burst into flame, burning their
targets.
Eight Drunken Hsien
Dragons of the East page 50
Mind 3 or Entropy 2, Life 2
Akashics can use Do to defend against multiple
opponents at a time, and make it look like an accident.
Often called the "drunken master" technique, the
Akashic takes a staggering stance that appears drunk,
and though every move is effective, all of them appear
to be accidental. The Mind 3 version makes the
movements seem accidental, the Entropy and Life
version actually randomizes movements, while still
directing them at opponents. Each success lowers the
Akashic's difficulty to hit and increases the difficulty to
hit them.
The Final Blow
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (Revised) page 68
Entropy 4, Life 3, Mind 5, Prime 3
One of the most famous applications of Do, this rote
allows the Akashic using it to keep standing beyond the
point where they should have died in order to complete
a battle.
Each success adds an extra health level which, in
addition to the spending of a Willpower point, allows
the Akashic to continue fighting, even after death.
Additional successes are spent on duration.
Flying Dragon Kick
Book of Shadows page 148
Forces 4, Correspondence 1
Required Do Maneuver: Flying Kick
With this maneuver, an Akashic can stay aloft even
for several minutes of long-distance flight to deliver a
flying kick to a target, so long as the target was in sight
(including Correspondence) and the Mage travels a
straight line.
Focus of the Blow
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (First Edition) page 63
Forces 1, Mind 1
Required Do Maneuver: Punch, Kick, Flying Kick or
Throw
Damage difficulty is decreased by one per success.
Furthermore, for the duration, a teacher can tell if the
maneuver was employed correctly with complete
accuracy.
Hands of Death
Technocracy: Syndicate page 48
Guide to the Technocracy page 212
Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition page 601
Life 3 or Forces 2 or both
Either using Life to hit internal organs precisely or
Forces to hit harder (or both), this makes the
Technocrat much more capable at hand-to-hand
combat.
Long Fist
Book of Shadows page 148
Correspondence 4, Forces 3, Prime 2
Required Do Maneuver: Punch
This technique focuses the Akashic's Chi to strike
additional targets at a rate of one per success. This attack
does Forces damage rather than regular punching
damage, and the targets may be out of normal reach (up
to 3 yards per level of Do) and may punch through
objects without damaging them.
Piercing Cry
Book of Shadows page 148
Matter 3, Entropy 3
Required Do Maneuver: Kiai
62 Enlightened Grimoire
This Do technique allows the Akashic to shatter solid
objects. One success allows them to break glass, while
three or four is enough to crack a wall or heavy door.
Purifying Step
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (Revised) page 66
Forces 2 or Spirit 2
The Akashic steps forward (or claps hands together)
to cause the ground to shake. The Forces version of this
rote directly transmits energy through the ground to the
target, which can cause direct injury or push them three
feet per success in any direction. The Spirit version calls
a spirit through the strong step, is a quick but less
directed version of Call Spirit.
Repeating Blow
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (First Edition) page 64
Forces 3, Correspondence 3, Mind 1, Prime 2
Required Do Maneuver: Punch or Kick
The Akashic spends several rounds attacking and
pulling back a blow, storing the energy that they had put
into it. For each turn spent this way, the difficulty
increases. Up to a maximum of five, each success acts as
a multiplier to the damage dice pool when the final blow
actually lands. Due to the near impossibility of hitting a
moving target with this rote, it is most useful for
destroying barriers, vehicles, and other stationary
targets.
Righteous Fist
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (Revised) page 67
Life 3, Mind 4, Time 4
Akashics of the Hsien Chuan and Lohan Chuan
schools can set the injury from a blow to trigger when
they do a proscribed act or think a banned thought. The
Akashic strikes the Metal Element pressure point while
chanting a portion of the Drahma Sutra, and they can
seal away a thought or action, binding the target to take
damage should they violate this ban.
Rolling Hands
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (Revised) page 67
Forces 1
When a martial artist makes contact with an
opponent, this rote allows them to react more quickly
by sensing the opponent's movement extremely finely.
This allows a difficulty reduction of 1 per success for any
parry or block.
Screech of the Owl
Book of Shadows page 148
Mind 3, Entropy 3
Required Do Maneuver: Kiai
Often, an Akashic prefers to avoid battle. With this
technique, the Akashic can stun up to their Stamina +
Intimidation number of opponents, for a number of
turns equal to the successes.
Spirit Wounder
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (First Edition) page 64
Spirit 2
Required Do Maneuver: Punch, Kick or Throw
By focusing their Chi, an Akashic can use Do to harm
spirits just as they would humans.
Melee
There is a certain magick in a blade, that the most
skilled users can tap into. Other melee weapons also
have a bit of this, and many Mages use a melee weapon
of some sort as a focus for their combat effects.
Blade Sense
The Swashbuckler's Handbook page 94
Correspondence 1, Matter 1, Life 1
A combination of extra-spatial awareness, physical
precision and a bond with the blade, this gives the
fencer a bonus to difficulty on the next parry or attack
roll.
The Hero's Challenge
The Swashbuckler's Handbook page 91
Mind 2
When a swordsman is outnumbered, a taunt backed
by this rote can mock their enemies into coming at them
one at a time instead of all at once.
Iron Snake
Enhanced Combat 63
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (Revised) page 67
Correspondence 2, Forces 2, Mind 3
Only extremely skilled melee fighters among the
Akashics (six dice in Dexterity + Melee) can attempt this
rote.
With any flexible weapon, such as a chain, rope, or
cloth, the Mage can entrance their enemy and strike in
unexpected ways. This causes the opponent's melee dice
pools to decrease by one per success.
Jabarut (The Darwishim Battle Trance)
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page 41
Life 3, Prime 3, Time 3, Correspondence 1
The Ahl-i-Batin goes into a trance for battle, giving
rise to legends of the whirling dervish. The rote causes
the Mage's hand-to-hand attacks to do aggravated
damage, and beyond the first success, successes are spent
on increasing accuracy, damage and gaining extra
actions. Furthermore, they will know the location of all
their opponents, can spend successes to increase
Physical Attributes as in Better Body, or even spend two
successes for an extra "Bruised" health level.
Splitting a Cuirass
Artisan's Handbook page 48
The Swashbuckler's Handbook page 95 (as Piercing Thrust)
Entropy 1, either Life 1 or Matter 1, optional other spheres
Like Cynical Eye. Splitting the Cuirass allows the user
to find flaws in armor, with Life used for natural armor
and Matter used otherwise.
Swordbreaker Rune
Dead Magic 2 page 98
Forces 2, optional Matter 3
With just Forces, this creates a field that redirects
kinetic energy around them to protect them from a
weapon. With Matter, it makes an enemy's weapon
brittle and easily broken.
Wind-Water Skein
Dragons of the East page 66
Correspondence 3, Matter 3, Forces 2, Prime 2
The Wu-Keng creates a bridal gown with a ragged
edge with threads still on the needles. By donning the
gown, they gain the ability to control these needles.
They can go virtually anywhere, and the Wu-Keng has
enough control over them to attack, throw, reel-in or
immobilize the target. This silk is nearly indestructible.
Ranged
Pioneered by the Technocracy, firearms were for a
long time their own sort of magick entirely. Now, they
are considered largely mundane, but magick can assist
significantly in their use. Although not as effective in
the modern world, other ranged weapons, such as bows,
can also be assisted by many of the same rotes.
Deadaim
Initiates of the Art page 81
Entropy 1, Forces 1, optional Life 1
Enhances the Mage's ability to aim a gun, successes
decrease the difficulty of the attack by one per success.
Death Ray
Tradition Book: Sons of Ether (Revised) page 60
Entropy 4 or Forces 3, Prime 2, optional Time 3
What is a Mad Scientist without a Death Ray? There
are fundamentally two different kinds of death rays: one
that is essentially a laser, focusing energy of some sort at
a target. The other is more of a disintegration beam,
through some technique or other it sends a black, jagged
bolt at the target which disrupts its Pattern directly.
With Time 3, either of these can be treated as an
automatic weapon.
Both version inflict aggravated damage and requires a
successful Dexterity + Firearms roll to hit the target.
Emit Beam-Ray
Technocracy: Iteration X page 49
Forces 3, Prime 2
By efficiently combining several techniques, Iteration
X's Time-Motion Managers developed this procedure. It
attacks the target with a variety of simple forces:
microwaves attack with heat, a laser attempts to burn
and blind, noise can deafen, and X-rays have little
64 Enlightened Grimoire
immediate effect, but if the target survives the short
term, can cause cancer.
Golden Gunman
Guide to the Technocracy page 216
Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition page 605
Time 3, Forces 2
When dual-wielding firearms and making a dramatic
entrance, the Technocrat can get off an extra shot each
turn for each success. As an option, successes can be
spent to increase damage.
Grand Salvo
Artisan's Handbook page 50
Forces 2
Increases the damage from any weapon that fires off
at least five attacks within a single round. For every two
successes, an additional shot can be fired.
Holdout Weapon
Technocracy: New World Order page 49
Guide to the Technocracy page 213
Matter 3, Prime 2
With this Procedure, an Agent can materialize a
small, easily concealed weapon, particularly useful in
desperate situations.
Hot-Shotting
Guide to the Technocracy page 210
Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition page 601
Forces 3
Sometimes, conspiracy and cover up fail and the only
solution is to start shooting. Hot-Shotting makes that
significantly easier, allowing the Technocrat to add
successes to their damage on the next gunshot.
Laserblast
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 48
Forces 3, Prime 2
A direct Forces attack, via a laser fired from an energy
weapon.
Magic Bullet
Tradition Book: Euthanatos (Revised) page 61
Entropy 2, Forces 2
For those Euthanatos more comfortable with modern
technology, this rote allows them to fire a bullet and
cause chance to break just right for it to hit multiple
targets, ricochet in unpredictable ways, or otherwise
Enhanced Combat 65
behave unexpectedly. In particular, it allows the Mage
to hit additional targets with the same bullet.
Ricochet
Hidden Lore page 12
Correspondence 1, Forces 1, Matter 1, Time 1
When defending against an incoming missile attack
slower than a bullet, the successes are subtracted before
determining if it hits. The Akashic is using Do to track
the attack and deflect it. If the number of successes is
greater than that of the attacker, the Akashic has the
choice to try to deflect the attack back at the source.
Rudra's Bow
Tradition Book: Euthanatos (Revised) page 61
Life 3, Forces 2, optional other spheres
The Euthanatos calls upon the archers of legend
(Rudra in India, Artemis in Greece, etc.) to make their
bow supernaturally powerful. Other spheres may be
invoked for additional effects, but the core effect is that
each success adds two dice of aggravated damage (via
Life 3) as anyone hit by the arrows fired from the bow is
immediately attacked by vicious, fast-acting disease.
The Swift Lock
Artisan's Handbook page 49
Forces 2
Increases a flintlock firearm's rate of fire by one turn
per shot.
Tamping
Order of Reason page 71
Forces 2
An Artificer rote, the Mage measures out and uses
extra black powder (in Dark Fantastick era weapons,
other techniques are required for modern weapons) to
improve the effectiveness of the firearm and increase the
size of the damage dice pool by one per success.
Tension
Order of Reason page 72
Forces 2
An old Artificer trick for reloading crossbows faster:
with three successes, the number of rounds to reload the
weapon is decreased by one.
Trickshot
Initiates of the Art page 81
Correspondence 1, Entropy 1, Forces 1, Mind 1
With Trickshot, the Mage can arrange nearly
impossible shots effectively. Successes subtract from the
difficulty of the next shot the Mage fires.
66 Enlightened Grimoire
Healing and Harming
Healing has always been one of the essential magickal
techniques. In some places, magick itself was part of the
bag of tricks that was referred to as medicine, though
now medicine almost exclusively refers to techniques for
healing. The flip side of healing is the ability to cause
harm.
In this chapter, we cover rotes for Diagnostics, because
a problem must be identified before it can be
solved. Then we move on to Drugs and Poisons, Harming,
Healing, and Mental Health. With the basics
down, we move on to Pain, and then the more dramatic
areas of Resurrection and Temporary Health.
Diagnostics
Before any malady can be solved, it must first be recognized.
Diagnostic rotes are used to determine what,
if anything, is wrong with someone.
Bloodsight
Tradition Book: Verbena (First Edition) page 63
Life 1
This rote allows a Verbena to sense how healthy a
person or animal is, what diseases or injuries they might
have, if they are pregnant, how old they are, anything
directly tied to their physical state.
Conclave Wellness Works
Book of Crafts page 88
Entropy 2, Mind 2, Life 1
At the start of a season, the Sisters of Hippolyta burn
incense and sing to welcome it in and extend their
perceptions to the whole (gathered) community, sensing
the health and mental state of everyone around. This
alerts them to any problems or illnesses.
Detect Mental Anomalies
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 44
Mind 1
The Void Engineer can perform a quick mental scan
and determine if someone's mind has been tampered
with or altered in some way, as well as detecting mental
illness.
Examine Humors
Order of Reason page 73
Life 1, optional Mind 2
68 Enlightened Grimoire
A Cosian rote, by examining the patient's body fluids,
insight can be gained into the patient's health issues.
Each success gives a -1 difficulty on a medicine roll for
diagnostic purposes. With Mind 2 added, the Mage can
gain insight into any unusual issues with the patient's
temperament.
Prayer of Healing Revelation
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 198
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 201
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 170
Life 1
Allows the Mage to detect injuries in the target.
Drugs and Poisons
Drugs and poisons are essentially the same thing:
chemicals being used to induce a specific effect on the
body. Mundane drugs and poisons can do many things,
but magickally created and applied ones can do more,
and often with only the side effects that the Mage desires,
making them much safer…or much deadlier.
Accidental Overdose
World of Darkness: Outcasts page 90
Life 4, Matter 4
This rote directly transforms inorganic material in the
target's blood stream into a drug, causing them to react
as though they'd ingested it. This usually leads to an
overdose.
Adaptive Chemistry
Convention Book: Progenitors (Revised) page 72
Matter 3, Prime 2
This tends to act as an emergency chemistry kit. With
it, a Progenitor is able to change one drug into another
so that they always have the right tool for the job. Some
less ethical Scientists have used it to alter poisons in a
victim's system to destroy evidence of murder.
Cinnabar Tears
Healing and Harming 69
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (Revised) page 67
Life 3, Matter 2
The Akashic ingests a tiny amount of a poison, which
then alchemically transforms some body fluid within
the Akashic into that poison. The Akashic is immune
to the poison they create, and generally the toxin will do
one level of damage per success in addition to the
damage from a strike.
DMSO
Guide to the Technocracy page 212
Life 3, Matter 3, Prime 2
DMSO, or dimethyl sulfoxide, is a chemical that
opens the pores on the skin (often used in contact
poisons). This procedure causes the Technocrat's touch
to have the same effect, which causes anything on the
victim's or Technocrat's skin to seep inside, often
causing illness and sometimes death.
Drug Enhancement
Technocracy: Progenitors page 44 (as Enhance Drugs)
Convention Book: Progenitors (Revised) page 72
Life 2, Matter 2, Prime 1
Progenitors can get more out of even mundane drugs,
and this rote doubles the benefits without changing the
drawbacks of them.
Experience Substance
Hidden Lore page 17
Mind 2, Matter 1
This rote allows a Mage to experience the mental
effects of a drug or substance without having to
consume it. This is most effective for stimulants,
hallucinogens and narcotics, as more physically active
drugs don't work.
Good Eatin'/Cleanse the Clown
Orphan's Survival Guide page 124
Life 2;
Matter 2;
Life 2, Matter 2
Life kills any parasites that might be in food, Matter
purifies it and improves the taste. A very useful effect
for Mages living on the street.
Manufacture Enlightened Drugs
Technocracy: Progenitors page 44 (as Create Mage Drugs)
Convention Book: Progenitors (Revised) page 73
Life 3, Matter 3, Prime 3
This allows the creation of enlightened drugs. Each
dose requires give points of Prime Energy which are
transferred to the user. For common examples see
"Enlightened Drugs" in Convention Book: Progenitors
(Revised) on page 73.
Metabolic Mastery
Technocracy: Progenitors page 44
Life 5
Now, the Progenitor can create the effects of any drug,
poison or metabolic product, even if it isn't present.
This is possible through direct manipulation of the
body's receptors.
Persephone's Nectar
Tradition Book: Euthanatos (Revised) page 62
Life 3, Correspondence 3, Matter 2
A signature of the Golden Chalice, this rote turns any
ordinary liquid into a poison specific to the target of the
effect. Some variants may mystically age targets, put
them to sleep, or induce visions, but the most common
use is to kill the target. Correspondence is used to tie it
to the Pattern of the specific target, so that it cannot
harm anyone else.
The Poison Maiden
Book of Shadows page 146
Life 4
The subject is first made immune to a poison, and
then their biochemistry is altered so that they secrete it,
exhaling it with each breath and sweating it from their
pores. Each success spent on duration makes it last for
a month, and for five successes it can be made
permanent.
Polysorbate
Guide to the Technocracy page 211
Life 2, Mind 2, Prime 1
By persuading someone that they have gotten a "bad
batch" of some chemical that's common in food, a
70 Enlightened Grimoire
Progenitor can cause one of any number of effects, with
the following examples:
• the food they ate is not filling, and they are hungry
again an hour later
• lethargy and inaction
• preservatives in the meat cause hostility and
aggression
• impaired concentration and alertness
• soulless, dead food that destroys some of their
Primal Energy
Purge
Orphan's Survival Guide page 125
Life 2 or 3
This rote allows a Mage to clean a target out of drugs
or illnesses. Life 2 is enough for themselves, Life 3 for
another target.
Purging the System
World of Darkness: Outcasts page 91
Life 3, Matter 3
This rote cures physical substance addiction.
Purify
Tradition Book: Cult of Ecstasy (First Edition) page 66
Life 3 or Matter 2, or both
This rote allows a Cultist to flush drugs, poisons and
diseases out of the target's body. Matter allows them to
remove drugs or poisons, Life allows them to remove
diseases other than the worst (such as HIV and Cancer,
which only go into remission), and both can, of course,
do both.
Sustenance Pill
Hidden Lore page 52
Life 3, Prime 2
A Technocrat properly prepared can take one of these
pills and not need food or rest for a number of days
equal to the successes they roll
Taking Poison for the Enemy
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page 44
Correspondence 2, Life 2, Matter 2
The Batini can build upon the similarities between
them and their victim so that poison that they ingest
affects the target instead.
Tolerance
Tradition Book: Cult of Ecstasy (Revised) page 72
Life 2, Mind 1
This rote allows a Cultist to regain control of
themselves despite whatever methods they've used to
Healing and Harming 71
alter their consciousness. Usually through some sort of
meditative technique, they use Mind to regain selfcontrol
and Life to purge their body of the aftereffects
of their trip. If the trip is bad enough to cause bashing
or lethal damage, Tolerance can give the Cultist soak
dice.
Witch's Diplomacy
The Swashbuckler's Handbook page 93
Life 3, Matter 2, other spheres optional
Creates a deadly poison that the Mage can then
attempt to get into their target. Other spheres can be
used to give other effects to the poison, almost any effect
that those spheres can manage.
Harming
The living Pattern that makes up a person or animal
is a delicate thing. It is easily damaged or destroyed by
mundane sources. Some rotes, however, attack the Pattern,
either directly or indirectly. Many of the rotes in
this section are explicitly designed to kill the target,
though some (such as The Branding Rote
) cause scarring that will last a lifetime.
This sections includes the famous Gilgul rote.
Accelerated Aging
Convention Book: Progenitors (Revised) page 72
Life 3, Time 3
Progenitors have developed a chemical compound
that, when ingested, causes the subject to age five years.
Without weekly maintenance, however, the subject will
return to their natural age after a month.
Allergic Reaction
World of Darkness: Outcasts page 90
Life 4, Prime 2
Triggers an allergic reaction in the target. It can range
from an irritating rash or a stuffy nose to death,
depending on the damage dealt by the effect.
Ana'ana (The Death Prayer)
Dead Magic 2 page 27
Correspondence 3, Life 3 or Spirit 3
By chanting out why they want a target to die while
drumming a martial rhythm, Polynesian mages cause
them to become ill, and badly enough that they only
have a limited time to persuade the Mage to call off the
attack, whether direct of via a spirit.
Blight of Aging
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 193
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 195
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 164
Entropy 4
Subtle versions of this effect can cause old wounds to
reopen, the target to fall victim to diseases or even fall
into a coma. More blatant versions cause them to age
instantly.
Bone Twisting Palm
Book of Shadows page 141
Entropy 4, Life 4, Prime 3
This rote has two forms. Both twist the target's bones
until they break, harming the target and often leaving
them disabled without magical healing. One version is
attempting to cause as much damage as possible, and it
does aggravated damage. The other is instead
attempting to cause permanent disability, in which case
lethal damage is done, but for the duration of the effect,
the limbs being twisted are useless.
The Branding Rote
Book of Secrets, page 219
Prime 3, Spirit 3, Life 3, Mind 2, optional Time 4, Spirit 4, Forces
3
When a Tradition mage needs to be punished, one
option is this rote: branding them. Anyone with supernatural
sight can see these marks, though many won't
know what the marks themselves mean.
Prime and Spirit are used to burn the brand into the
essence of the subject, Life ties it to their physical form,
and Mind causes people who see the branded Mage to
distrust them, whether they can detect the brand itself
or not. This effect requires six successes to last for the
intended duration. Time can be added to cause the
brand to be lifted at a triggered condition, Forces can
make it glow visibly on the subject, and Spirit can be
used to make it a permanent part of the subject's avatar.
Curse of the Mayfly
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 222
Entropy 4, Life 4
This effect ages the target by three years per success.
Destructive Genegineering
Convention Book: Progenitors (Revised) page 73
Entropy 3, Life 3
Quick and dirty genetic engineering allows the
Progenitor to inflict the target with genetic disorders.
Each day, the target rolls Stamina at difficulty 7. Success
rejects the mutation. Otherwise, all activities that could
be hampered by the mutation have difficulty 2 higher.
Fluids of Death
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 224
Life 4, Entropy 4
The Mage can brew a potion that causes anything it
touches to wither and die.
Fuck Off/Fuck Off and Die
Orphan's Survival Guide page 124
Mind 2;
Mind 3, Life 3
The gentler version allows the Mage to give someone
a look that causes them to want to get away, unless they
succeed on a Willpower roll. The stronger version
additionally does aggravated damage in the form of
heart failure and brain hemorrhage if the victim fails
their Willpower roll.
Gilgul
Book of Crafts page 59 (as Shattered Spirit Dust)
Book of Secrets page 220
Spirit 5, Entropy 5, Mind 5, Prime 5, optional Life 3 or 5, Forces
3, Correspondence 5
Gilgul is the most severe punishment that the Traditions
have ever designed. It is nothing short of the complete
annihilation of the offender, destroying the avatar,
dissolving the connection between the avatar and the
mind, and dispelling its energy back to the universe at
large. Life is often added to shred the pattern of the offender
or else directly transmute them to dust, Forces
Healing and Harming 73
scatter the remains so that they cannot be reconstituted,
and Correspondence can be used to dispel every element
of the victim.
Due to the nature and difficulty of the effect, it is only
used in the most extreme cases, generally against
Nephandi and Marauders. The difficulty is always 10,
and modifiers cannot ever bring it below 7. Any mage
who participates in a Gilgul ritual and who has even the
barest remnants of a conscience requires a Willpower
roll at difficulty 10 to not fall into an existential depression
for at least a week due to the nature of their actions.
Shattered Spirit Dust is a simpler form of Gilgul
known to the Hem-Ka Sobk. It tears the subject's soul
apart, transforms their body into dust, and throws the
Mind into the astral void.
Heart Murmurs
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 195
Entropy 4
The human body is an incredibly delicate and
complex system. By injecting chaos into it, this system
can be broken down, causing damage. The Mage has no
control over what sort of damage is done without Life.
Little Good Death
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 198
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 202
Life 2
This rote allows the Mage to attack simple creatures.
Essentially a variant on Rip the Man-Body.
Rip the Man-Body
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 200
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 203
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 171
Life 3
This allows the Mage to attack the Pattern of a
complex lifeform, such as a person, directly.
Simulate Inborn Errors of Metabolism
Technocracy: Progenitors page 44
Life 4, Entropy 4
The Genegineer can cause someone to contract a
temporary and severe genetic disease, which lasts for
one hour per success. Virtually any genetic disease can
be created in this way.
Spy's Stigmata
Hidden Lore page 13
Life 2, Prime 2, Correspondence 1
Causes a target that is attempting to spy on the Mage
to get a rash in some mark of the Mage's choice. This
rash is visible and remains until healed with Life 2.
Witch's Vengeance
Mage: The Sorcerer's Crusade page 273
Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition page 610
Entropy 4 or Life 3, Time 3 or both, optional Correspondence 2
Either ages the target or damages them directly and
can do so at a distance with Correspondence.
Healing
Mages often find themselves in need of quick healing.
These rotes can speed healing or even make it instantaneous
when needed, though instantly healing serious injuries
is, of course vulgar.
Aphrodite's Blessing
Tradition Book: Cult of Ecstasy (First Edition) page 65
Life 2
Without dulling the sensations caused by an extreme
environment, the Cultist continually repairs any
damage that it causes.
Chirurgeon
Order of Reason page 74
Life 3
This rote has identical effects to Rapid Healing but
can be used on a patient in the Mage's care.
Distill the Azoth Elixir
Tradition Book: Order of Hermes (First Edition) page 67
Life 5, Prime 3, Matter 2
74 Enlightened Grimoire
A closely guarded secret, this rote allows Hermetics to
create Azoth, a liquid that captures the pure essence of
life. Azoth can heal any injury, cure any disease, and
even restore the recently dead to life. It can be bottled
and stored for up to a week before it loses its potency.
For each success, the Mage must spend one
Quintessence to distill one dram of Azoth. Each dose
can heal three levels of aggravated damage, ten doses can
restore a person who died recently (what this means is a
judgment call for the Storyteller), though a person
resurrected this way is just a husk. It is rumored that
with Mind and Spirit magick, a greater Azoth could be
distilled that solves this problem, but many consider
this to just be a legend.
Ease of Passage
Book of Crafts page 89
Life 4
This rote allows the Mage to assist a childbirth,
decreasing the risks without otherwise altering the
experience of birth.
Hajjaj
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page 41
Correspondence 3, Life 3, Mind 2, optional Time 4
This rote, in general, allows the Batini to steal the
health of others, and is considered an extreme and
unpopular technique. The normal use causes the target
to start wasting away, and whenever they lose a health
level, the Batini gains one. With Time 4 to trigger it, the
rote can also be used to frustrate a Vampire: whenever
they draw blood from the Mage, it immediately returns,
preventing them from feeding or embracing the Mage.
Heal Self
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 199 (as Ho Tien
Chi)
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 202 (as Ho Tien
Chi)
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 170
Life 2
This allows the Mage to heal themselves of damage, at
one success per health level. Aggravated damage
requires the expenditure of Quintessence.
Heal Simple Creature
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 199
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 202
Life 2
The Mage can repair virtually any injury or disease in
a simple life form, which covers almost all plants and
animals other than humans.
Healer Rune
Dead Magic 2 page 98
Life 1, 2 or 4;
Mind 3 or 4
This rune song makes the Mage a more effective
healer by letting them see the injury or illness directly.
At higher levels, it can directly heal greater and greater
injuries, and with Mind instead of Life, can cure mental
illnesses and traumas as well.
Healing Figurine
Dead Magic page 29
Life 3
By making a carved figure to hold healing energies,
the Mage can accelerate healing for a target who sleeps
in the same room as the figurine.
Healing Slumber
Tradition Book: Dreamspeakers (First Edition) page 67
Life 3, Mind 2 or 4, Spirit 2 or 4
The simplest version heals the target and gives them
good dreams and good spirit energy. With Mind 4,
mental illness can be healed, and with Spirit 4
possession can be healed.
Massage Therapy
Healing and Harming 75
Book of Crafts page 89
Life 3 or Mind 3 or both
The Mage can cure almost any wound, ache or
blemish from their subject with Life, or mental trauma
with Mind, through a massage with special oils and
herbs.
Mukashuan
Dead Magic page 131
Life 3, optional Spirit 3
Caribou have been associated with healing among the
Inuit for generations. Using Caribou marrow, the Mage
can heal the subject. With spirit, a help is summoned
and induced to aid in the recovery. Particularly lucky
Mages may even get help from Caribou Master, healing
the patient instantly.
Rapid Healing
Order of Reason page 73
Life 2
With proper care, the caster can heal from bad
injuries in a matter of days, rather than months. For
each success, the Mage can heal a level of nonaggravated
damage at a maximum rate of one per day.
Aggravated damage is only healed on a successful
Stamina roll (difficulty 8) and does get a dice pool
penalty due to the injuries, as well as needing to spend
quintessence. This cannot heal any injury that is truly
impossible to heal naturally: if a character loses a limb,
this rote is of little help.
Serene Temple
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 226
Mind 1, Life 2
This rote allows the Mage to change the speed at
which their body (and mind) operate. They can speed it
up to flush toxins or improve healing, but they can also
slow it down to control bleeding, endure extreme
temperature, or fake death.
Stay the God's Hand
Dead Magic page 52
Entropy 1, Life 1 or 3
Two rotes commonly used together by Babylonian
physicians, the first (with Life 1) attempts to diagnose
the source of a malady, usually determining which god
76 Enlightened Grimoire
the target has gained the disfavor of. The second (with
Life 3) attempts to heal it.
Surpu
Dead Magic page 55
Life 3, Spirit 2
Although purification rituals for specific illnesses
were known to the Babylonians, there were many
ailments they could not identify. This catch-all ritual
begins by listing all possible sins the subject has
committed to ensure that the cause of the subject's
illness is included, then an object is slowly dismantled
and burned, often an onion burned layer by later. For
each success, the symptoms disappear for one day, but
they return afterwards.
Trauma
Order of Reason page 74
Life 3
A Cosian technique for emergency medicine, if the
Mage can get to the injured party quickly, within a few
rounds of the injury occurring, this makes the injury
significantly less than it first appeared to be. Each
success can heal one level of damage (and as usual,
aggravated damage requires quintessence to heal).
Trauma Transmission
Convention Book: Progenitors (Revised) page 74
Correspondence 2, Life 4, optional Prime 2, optional Dimensional
Science 2
Darkly referred to as "Rip the Clone Body," this
Procedure relies on the common DNA between a
Technocrat and their clone, this displaces all injuries
from the Technocrat onto all existing clones of the
Technocrat. Adding Prime makes the damage
aggravated and Dimensional Science is necessary to
target any off-world clones.
Mental Health
In the World of Darkness, there are many things that
it's bad to even get a good look at, much less deal with
consistently. Unfortunately, that's exactly what Mages
do. Fortunately, these rotes exist, which can be used to
affect the mental health and well-being of their subjects.
Adjust Major Anomalies
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 44
Mind 3
Thanks to the innovation of Dream therapy, where
the Void Engineer enters the patient's dreams, it is
possible to repair significant mental damage. Some
examples include extended, forced service to a
Marauder, long-term Domination or Presence, and even
mundane forms of brainwashing.
Adjust Minor Anomalies
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 44
Mind 2
This allows a Void Engineer to repair minor mental
damage, such as brief contact with a Marauder,
enchantment by one of the Fae, or a Vampire's
Dominate.
Help Rune
Dead Magic 2 page 97
Mind 1, Prime 1, optional Prime 2 or 5
This rune fortifies the user's soul, gaining them
temporary Willpower points for the duration of the
scene. At the end of the scene, the Mage is left with two
fewer Willpower points than when they began. With
Prime 2, the Mage gains the benefits of Holy Stroke, and
with Prime 5, they can throw raw destruction at their
enemies.
Physiological Rule
Technocracy: Progenitors page 44
Life 4
The Progenitor has precision control over the
biochemistry of themselves and others. They can destroy
cells in specific locations, cause changes to cellular
structure (such as permeability, which can result in
dehydration) and can cause various changes in
neurochemistry.
Quietsong
Hidden Lore page 13
Mind 2 or 3, Entropy 1
Healing and Harming 77
The Mage can enter (perception only at Mind 2,
communication at 3) the interior reality of a Mage in
Quiet.
Pain
Though sometimes used to mitigate pain, especially in
the Mage, magick can also be used to inflict pain. Especially
as torture becomes more and more normalized in
certain parts of the wider culture, the more Mages will
use magick to perform it.
Branding the Heart
Artisan's Handbook page 52
Mind 2, Forces 2
Uses a cold branding iron to give the target the
sensation of being branded, including the feeling of
being burned and damage that can render them
unconscious.
Buzz
Hidden Lore page 48
Prime 2
A Nephandic version of Rubbing of Bones, but it
stimulates the target rather than pains them. This is
used to try to make them think positively towards the
Nephandus.
Counter-Irritant
Dead Magic page 27
Life 2
By applying a cauterizing instrument to a wound, the
Mage drives out the pain from the injury with the
subject's scream. The turn after this is completed, the
subject no longer suffers wound penalties from this
injury for the duration of the effect. The Mage may also
use successes to decrease healing time for the wound.
The Curse of Consequences
Tradition Book: Dreamspeakers (Revised) page 66
Mind 3, Spirit 1
Given the damage that their enemies do, often in
ignorance, the Dreamspeakers developed this rote to
force them to understand the consequences of their
actions. The target makes a Willpower roll of difficulty
5 + the Dreamspeaker's arete in order to do anything
other than suffer as they are forced to, all at once,
experience the misery that their actions have caused to
various spirits.
Curse of Macha
Tradition Book: Verbena (Revised) page 66
Life 2
Named for an Irish goddess who gave birth
immediately after being forced to run a footrace against
a horse, this rote allows a Verbena to visit the pain of
childbirth on the target.
Degree Absolute
Technocracy: New World Order page 50
Mind 5, Correspondence 4
This Procedure places a captured target into a lifelike
virtual reality, tailored to the needs of the Agent
performing the procedure.
Dukhamarana Moksa
Tradition Book: Euthanatos (Revised) page 67
Entropy 4, Life 3
Also called Release of Agonizing Death, this rote is
used when a Euthanatos deems someone worthy of a
particularly painful death. Not only does it do
unsoakable aggravated damage, but the wounds caused
won't heal without active mystical intervention, as the
target's ability to replenish their Pattern has itself been
destroyed. Anyone killed with this effect turns into a
lifeless dust and cannot be recreated. If the target is
killed, the user gains a trait of Entropic Synergy.
Endless Parchment
Infernalism: The Path of Screams page 86
Life 3, Prime 2
An effect whose only purpose is to torture the victim.
Minor demons are invoked, and the victim is flayed
alive. Every time skin is pulled away; however, new skin
grows to replace is, allowing the flaying to begin again
and again.
General Anesthesia
78 Enlightened Grimoire
Tradition Book: Sons of Ether (First Edition) page 63
Mind 1, Life 1
Etherites with an interest in medicine quickly
determined that taking away pain improves
performance. This rote allows them to ignore one level
of wound penalties per success.
Knock Out
Tradition Book: Sons of Ether (First Edition) page 64
Mind 3, Prime 2
Most Etherites prefer to avoid combat, but sometimes
it is unavoidable. This combines the Prime effect
Rubbing of Bones with Mind to stun the target for two
rounds per success. This is resisted with Willpower,
difficulty 8, and each success on this roll cancels one on
the Etherite's.
Prolong Pleasure/Pain
Tradition Book: Cult of Ecstasy (First Edition) page 66
Mind 3, Time 3
The Cultist creates a simple time loop, causing the
subject to experience the action setting into motion for
as long as the magic lasts. To focus through it, the
subject needs to make a Willpower roll with difficulty
determined by the strength of the stimulus, +1 for each
hour. Any new strong sensation cancels the effect.
Rubbing of Bones
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 211
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 215
Prime 2
Though it causes no permanent harm, any disruption
or ripple in the Quintessence in a Pattern causes intense
pain. This rote does that to a target. This disables the
character for the duration, though Willpower points
may be spent to act.
Turkey Basting
Technocracy: Syndicate page 48
Mind 3, Life 3
Healing and Harming 79
By describing the tortures that the Syndicate agent
could do to the target, they lock them into a mental loop
where they feel all those tortures and more, without
taking any actual damage. To maintain control, the
victim needs to roll Willpower with difficulty 5 + the
number of success on Turkey Basting. Failing this roll
causes the victim to tell them anything they want to
know, and botching drives them insane from the
torture. Each hour the victim loses a Willpower point
and rolls again.
Resurrection
Extremely difficult and usually very temporary, it is
possible for a sufficiently powerful Mage to raise the
dead. For anyone who has been dead for any amount
of time, this is a very brief matter, but for those who've
only just died, there's a chance that they can be brought
back to life fully.
Stop-Gap Resurrection
Convention Book: Progenitors (Revised) page 74
Life 4, Mind 4
Once, for one minute per success, this procedure can
restore the dead (temporarily) to life. Most often, this is
used to get reliable eyewitnesses for investigations.
Waters of the Well of Life
Tradition Book: Verbena (Revised) page 68
Life 5
For a subject who has been dead for fewer hours than
the Verbena's Arete, with at least four successes, the
Verbena can restore the subject to life. They return with
only a single health level and must recover normally.
This effect is always vulgar.
Temporary Health
There is a limit on how healthy a person can actually
be, to how much damage they can take before they die.
However, it is possible to give temporary boosts beyond
this, so that injuries would reduce the person only to
"healthy" status.
Gift of Prana
Tradition Book: Euthanatos (Revised) page 61
Life 2 or 3, Prime 3
By meditating on the Great Wheel and focusing on
the flow of Prana (life-energy), a Euthanatos may grant
health to their allies. This rote requires a point of
Quintessence and each success creates two temporary
health levels. At the end of the duration, if the target is
injured and has any of these health levels left, they are
automatically used to heal the target as much as possible
(the caster chooses if it will heal bashing or lethal, the
latter of which is usually vulgar). Life 3 is required to
target someone other than the Euthanatos.
Hua To's Cure
Dragons of the East page 67
Spirit 4, Prime 2, optional Life 3
The Wu-Keng calls on the deified healer Hua To with
songs and written invocations, and then crafts health
levels out of ephemera, reducing the subject's wound
penalties as if those health levels were real. With Life 3,
this will also actually heal one health level per success
and grant one ephemeral one as well.
80 Enlightened Grimoire
Inanimate Objects
Aside from just creating magickal objects, magick has
a long history of working with the inanimate. One of
the most ancient goals of the alchemists was to turn lead
into gold, a common stage feat of magic is to pull an
object seemingly from nowhere.
This chapter is divided up into Alterations, which
change the structure of an object, Analysis which gives
the Mage information about it, Conjuration, the ability
to call objects from elsewhere, Creation which can make
exotic materials and even create something out of nothing,
Destruction, Enhanced Objects, Repair and Reinforcement
and then finally, Transmutation itself.
Alterations
These rotes alter the fundamental properties of matter
without changing it into another type. These allow
merging of two objects into a single one, changing their
shape, weight or size, and even whether two different
objects will interact or just pass through each other.
Alloy
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 174
Matter 4
With Alloy, the Mage can take two Patterns and mix
them together, creating a new substance with some
properties from each.
Alter State
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 203
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 206
Matter 3 or 5
The weaker version directly changes the state of
Matter for the duration of the effect. The Matter 5
version directly changes the melting or boiling point of
a material, which can cause it to immediately boil,
freeze, melt or condense, depending on the new points.
Alter Weight
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 203
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 207
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 174
Matter 5
As a Master of Matter, a Mage can alter fundamental
properties of matter. With this rote, the Mage can
82 Enlightened Grimoire
increase or decrease an object's weight without altering
any other properties of the object.
Guncotton's Blessing
Dead Magic 2 page 65
Matter 3
The Mage causes any organic substance to become a
potent explosive.
Hidden Features
Convention Book: Syndicate (Revised) page 74
Varies
While other Conventions carry around bulky
equipment, Syndicate agents know that corporations
the Syndicate has a stake in build secrets into their
products that a savvy Syndicate agent can take advantage
of. Some examples are that with Matter 4, a building can
have a hidden safe room, Data 3 finds improved
hacking capabilities in a computer, Forces 2 or Matter 3
can suppress muzzle flash and act as a silencer on a gun.
The Incredible Shrunken Machine
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 224
Matter 5, Forces 3, Prime 2
This allows an Etherite to take a fully functioning
machine and shrink it down to nanotechnology. The
machine will continue to function based on how many
effects are spent on duration.
Matter Association
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 174
Matter 5
The Master can alter the fundamental properties of
matter. This can create materials that will not interact
with specific other materials (such as bullets that just
pass through armor) or can create superconductive
materials or materials of one sort with properties of
materials of another.
Matter Pattern Disassociation
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 202
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 207
Matter 5
A technique invented by Etherites, this rote makes
two materials insubstantial with respect to each other:
Inanimate Objects 83
they can just pass through one another. The two
substances are unchanged otherwise.
Melt and Reform
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 173
Matter 2
The Mage can transform an object into an easier to
modify form, such as stone into clay.
Sculpture
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 203
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 206
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 173
Matter 3
The Mage can change the shape of an object as in Melt
and Reform, but without having to transmute it into a
more malleable form first.
Semi Auto CAD CAM
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 221
Correspondence 5, Matter 3
Through computer modeling, a Mage can combine
two guns into a single weapon that mixes their styles and
their abilities. Choose one gun as the base. For each
success, the Mage can change one of Difficulty, Damage,
Range, Rate, Clip and Conceal on it to the stat of the
other.
Tapping the Signal
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 204
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 207
Matter 5
A rote beloved by some Technomages, hated by
others, this converts any material into a conductor,
which can be used to send signals. While this can be
used to connect (wired) to networks remotely, it is
particularly popular as a way to tap into isolated lines
and thus eavesdrop on secure communication.
Transephemeration Ray Projector
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 225
Matter 3, Life 3
84 Enlightened Grimoire
Targeting both a person and an inanimate object with
beams of light, this rote causes the person and object to
no longer interact, just passing through one another.
Transformers
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 207
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 174
Matter 4
Just as Alloy mixes two substances, Transformers
allows the Mage to combine two devices into a single
one, such as a wristwatch/dart shooter.
Analysis
Before changing something drastically, a Mage must
know what it is. Analysis rotes give the Mage information
about the inanimate objects they are working
with.
Analyze Substance
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 202
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 206
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 173
Matter 1
This rote allows the Mage to determine what an object
is made of.
Evaluation
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 44
Matter 1
This gives the Void Engineer detailed information
about a physical object within line of sight.
Machine God
Technocracy: Iteration X page 50
Mind 2, Matter 1, Forces 1
This procedure allows an Iterator to "think like a
machine" which gives them insight into the operation
and repair of machines, computers, robots and other
pieces of high technology.
Perfection of the Tools
Artisan's Handbook page 47
Matter 1, Mind 1
An Artisan using this effect gets a minus one difficulty
per success on any task that they plan out carefully and
ensure that they have the proper tools for.
Conjuration
Summoning objects from afar or making more of an
object than there should be both constitute conjuration.
This area can often be mistaken for stage magic, but it
allows a Mage to not carry everything they could potentially
need at all times.
Abundance
Tradition Book: Celestial Chorus (Revised) page 57
Matter 2, Prime 2
Also known as "Loaves and Fishes" among Christian
Choristers, by blessing or giving a prayer of thanks for
food, a source of food or water fails to run out as it is
consumed. It does this such that no one ever sees food
or drink being created explicitly, such as a neveremptying
canteen or a canister of flour that never seems
to run out.
Apportation
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 189
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 159
Correspondence 2
Allows the Mage to pull a small object to their
location from elsewhere.
Kiss of the Virtuous Maiden
Dragons of the East page 66
Correspondence 2, Forces 2
The Wu-Keng rarely kill, themselves. However, when
they must, they write a brief poem declaring their
faithfulness to their demon lord. They then burn the
poem and conceals a weapon nearby. When in combat,
they can then produce the weapon, catching their
opponent by surprise. Often, Correspondence is used
to hide it in an unlikely location, such as the Mage's
mouth.
Inanimate Objects 85
Pickpocket
Order of Reason page 66
Correspondence 2
Originating among the Ksirafai, this rote sizes up a
target so that the Mage knows exactly where on their
person an object is as well as the best access to it. This
decreases the difficulty of rolls to pick the pocket of the
target for the object in question.
Ripple Through Space
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 186
Correspondence 4
This allows the Mage to move one object from any
location to any other location. The larger the object the
more successes and the more consequences in general.
Spatial Sheath
Book of Crafts page 103
Correspondence 2, Matter 1
As carrying around swords is frowned upon in
modern society, this Templar rote pushes all but the
entry point of a scabbard to another location, allowing
them to store a sword with only the hilt needing to be
hidden directly on them.
Summon Weapon
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (First Edition) page 63
Correspondence 2, Matter 1 or Matter 3, Prime 2
Instantaneously causes a weapon to appear in the
Mage's hands. If a weapon cannot be summoned from
elsewhere, the Mage can use the second form to create
a duplicate of a known weapon.
Creation
The creation of magickal and even just complex objects
is very difficult but can be rewarding. Whether it's
a material that doesn't exist among Sleepers at all, such
as Primium or stable Antimatter, hard to find chemicals,
or even just creating something from nothing with
pure Quintessence, creation is an important tool in
every Mage's kit.
Dash and a Pinch
Order of Reason page 75
Matter 2 optional Mind 2
With access to basic ingredients, a Mage can produce
virtually any mixture whatsoever. Regardless of actual
plausibility, the Mage mixes together various things that
they have and transmutes it into the desired mixture.
This is particularly useful to chemists and to cooks.
With Mind 2, a cook can hastily produce or improve a
meal to the point where it can affect someone's mental
state, making a guest lethargic enough to retire early, to
encourage people to drink more than they otherwise
would, etc.
Exotic Matter
Tradition Book: Sons of Ether (Revised) page 61
Matter 5, other spheres as noted
When an Etherite truly becomes a Master of Matter,
they start to feel constrained by normal materials.
Fortunately, with work, they can create new, strange
forms of Matter with properties unlike any that have
come before.
Exotic Matter - Antimatter
Tradition Book: Sons of Ether (Revised) page 61
Matter 5
By using particle accelerators, research time at CERN,
postmodern alchemy, or a variety of other techniques,
an Etherite can create Antimatter. Antimatter consists
of particles with opposite charges from regular matter:
instead of electrons, positrons, and for most other particles
just anti-particles. Antimatter's most important
property is that when it encounters regular matter, the
two annihilate each other converting perfectly to energy.
In short: an explosion. Antimatter requires at least 20
successes to create, and only after that can successes go
to the amount/damage/area. Each success then causes
three dice of aggravated damage in a radius of 100 yards
per success. For anything other than immediate explosion,
magnetic containment fields and vacuum pumps
are strongly recommended.
Exotic Matter - Primium
Technocracy: Iteration X page 48 (as Smelt Primium)
Tradition Book: Sons of Ether (Revised) page 62
Matter 5, Prime 3
86 Enlightened Grimoire
Among the only groups that know how to make
Primium are Iteration X and the Society of Ether. It's
an alchemically perfect allow of gold and silver.
Expensive alchemy or nuclear furnaces, not to mention
base materials, go into its creation, keeping it far out of
reach of anyone without Resources 5. Additionally, it
requires quintessence: each success needs to be backed
by a point of quintessence. Just to create Primium
requires 15 successes, and only after that can successes
be spent on mass and potency.
Primium itself has a near perfect sheen and is a very
strong material. However, its real value is its potency
against the supernatural. A Primium weapon will cause
aggravated damage, and it provides permanent
countermagick: two dice per success spent on it, though
no more than 10 dice against any given effect. This
countermagick has a radius of about two yards, and if
the Primium is used as a weapon, these dice are rolled
against any supernatural defenses.
Industry
Order of Reason page 76
Matter 3
The Mage can, given appropriate materials and time,
construct complex objects, such as ornate furniture, but
also false walls, hidden switches, secret doors and the
like. However, as an Order of Reason rote, Industry
takes much longer than Tradition methods do, each roll
requiring a full day (eight hours) in a workspace.
Inscribe Amulet
Mage Storyteller's Companion page 63
Entropy 1, Matter 1 or Life 1, Time 4, other spheres as needed
This creates an object with a hanging effect on it
which will be triggered under some circumstance
predetermined by the user. These circumstances may
include "not in front of Sleepers" and "if reality permits
it" to avoid Witnesses and even Vulgarity.
Jury Rig
Book of Shadows page 142
Matter 2, Prime 2, Correspondence 2, Mind 1
By careful examination of a broken machine, an
Etherite may determine exactly what needs to be done
to repair it and then proceed to do so using whatever
Inanimate Objects 87
techniques they prefer. The worse condition the
machine is in, the more successes are required to do the
repair.
Na Kua's Gift
Dragons of the East page 67
Matter 3, Forces 3, Prime 2, Mind 3
By mimicking the creation of humanity by Na Kua,
the Wu-Keng can create a servitor. Using Matter to
shape it and Forces and Mind to animate it, the creature
has a dot of Strength and Stamina for each success and
the creator's Dexterity.
O'Doul's Ingeniae
Order of Reason page 109
Prime 5
Allows the Mage to create objects out of pure
quintessence. Similar to a Matter 3/Prime 2 effect, this
avoids the requirement of Matter in exchange for
needing mastery of Prime.
Psychiatric Compounds
Guide to the Technocracy page 212
Life 3, Mind 2 or 3
Using Synthetic Rituals (see Guide to the
Technocracy page 211), the Technocrat is able to create
medications that alter the behavior of the brain. Once
ingested, it can cause one of
• evoking an extreme emotion, with Willpower to
resist (Mind 2 version)
• forgetting the last few minutes or hours (Mind 3,
resisted by Willpower)
• increased difficulty on Willpower rolls
• dulling the mind to willworking (increasing the
difficulty of Arete rolls)
Spear of my Fathers
Tradition Book: Dreamspeakers (First Edition) page 67
Matter 3, Spirit 3, Prime 2
The shaman can convert ephemera directly into
matter, with more successes necessary for larger and
more complex objects.
Spontaneous Material Construction
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 225
Matter 2 or 4, Prime 2
This allows the Mage to create small objects made of
a single substance from pure Quintessence. More
successes allow the object to be large or more intricate.
With Matter 4, composite objects can be created.
Temple Pillars
Hidden Lore page 51
Forces 4, Matter 3, Prime 2
This rote raises a structure from the ground, creating
it out of the local material as it rises, transmuting it as
needed. The larger the structure, the more successes are
needed.
Destruction
Sometimes, you just need to smash things. The rotes
in this section can cause things to explode, to break
open or to just disintegrate.
Burn-Out
World of Darkness: Outcasts page 91
Forces 2, Prime 1
By overloading a light bulb with Quintessence, a
Hollow One is able to cause it to explode, creating a
blinding flash of light and up to one health level of
bashing damage to anyone standing too close to it.
Chainbreaker Rune
Dead Magic 2 page 98
Entropy 1, Matter 1;
Entropy 2, Matter 2;
Entropy 3, Matter 3
The most basic level allows the Mage to detect
weaknesses in any sort of physical binding. As the Mage
grows more powerful, they can unlock the bonds or
destroy them utterly.
Erode Matter
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 193
Entropy 3
88 Enlightened Grimoire
This rote infuses entropy and chaos into an object,
causing it to decay.
Sabotage
Order of Reason page 76
Matter 2 or Entropy 2
Using either Matter or Entropy, the Mage determines
how best to destroy an object and proceeds to do it.
Sanitize Evidence
Guide to the Technocracy page 213
Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition page 603
Matter 2, Forces 2 and/or Prime 4
Sometimes, it's important for physical evidence to just
disappear, to evaporate. With this procedure, a
Technocrat can convert matter directly into energy. It
takes at least an hour, and each success can convert up
to ten pounds of matter.
Slay Machine
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 192
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 194
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 163
Entropy 3
Essentially the negation of Like Clockwork, Slay
Machine causes a device to break down more quickly.
The number of successes determine how much chaos is
caused, and the more complex the machine the fewer
are needed to disable it, though more are needed to
destroy it completely beyond repair.
Tulugaak's Harpoon
Dead Magic page 132
Forces 3, Matter 3, Prime 2
Following in the footsteps of Tulugaak, the Mage
hurls an object (traditionally a harpoon) which strikes
with enough force to cause whatever it hits to explode
outward. The fragments scatter and multiply over a wide
area.
Enhanced Objects
Magickal items and devices aren't common, but
they're not terrible uncommon either, especially for
Mages of certain Traditions. This section contains some
rotes for creating such objects and for enhancing regular
objects to magickal levels.
Beads on a String
Mage Storyteller's Companion page 62
Correspondence 2, Entropy 2, Matter 2, Mind 2, Spirit 2
This hard to verify effect is often included on
powerful wonders and talismans owned by a Mage. It
causes them to find their way to the Mage in their next
incarnation.
Bottle of Smoke
Book of Crafts page 42
Entropy 3 or Forces 3 or Life 3, Prime 2, optional Time 4;
Mind 2 or Matter 2, Prime 2, optional Time 4
An ancient weapon of the Solificati, this creates a
magickal smoke which can have many different effects,
including:
• redirecting probability (Entropy)
• scramble mechanical workings (Matter)
• burn exposed skin (Life)
• disabling hallucinations (Mind)
• corrode materials (Matter)
Time allows it to be set to go off on a delayed trigger.
Craft Biomechanism
Technocracy: Iteration X page 49
Matter 5, Prime 3
This allows the Iterator, usually a Biomechanic, to
craft a biomechanical replacement part for a human
being. Though still clearly mechanical, it looks
somewhat organic, is light and strong, and when
attached via Attach Biomechanism functions fully as the
original part did.
Create Fetish
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 215
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 219
Spirit 4
The Mage can bind spirits to objects to give access to
some of the spirit's powers to the owner of the object,
which will work best if the spirit is cooperating.
Inanimate Objects 89
Create Talen
The Spirit Ways page 90
Spirit 3, optional Prime 2
This allows a shaman to create a talen, a single-use
fetish. It either contains an awakened spirit or else a bit
of a patron spirit's power. It must incorporate Tass, or
else Prime 2 is necessary to infuse it with Quintessence.
Create Talismans and Artifacts
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 211 (as Create
Talisman)
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 215 (as Create
Talisman)
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 184
Prime 4
An Adept of Prime is capable of binding magic
permanently to objects, creating Talismans and
Artifacts, so long as they have access to sufficient
Quintessence.
They are also capable of created Soulgems, which are
a special sort of Periapt that holds Quintessence with
appropriate Resonance. It is attuned directly to the
Mage's avatar and so can only be used by them.
Enchant Weapon
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 214
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 183
Prime 2
The Mage can use this to create an idealized form of
a weapon or object. This form usually occupies the same
space as the weapon but need not be quite the same
thing (for instance, a jacket may become a Kevlar vest).
Such an object interacts directly with Patterns, and so
can cause aggravated damage. This almost always
requires a point of Quintessence when cast.
Fits Like a Glove
Mage Storyteller's Companion page 63
Matter 3
This effect causes whatever it is used on to
automatically resize itself to fit whoever it is using it.
Gorningstakkr
Dead Magic 2 page 102 Entropy 2, Life 2, Matter 2, Prime 2;
90 Enlightened Grimoire
Matter 5, Prime 2;
Life 3, Matter 2, Prime 2
The Wound-Proof Shirt. This ritual creates a shirt
that is an extremely potent defense. The most basic
version gives the wearer luck and will heal wounds. The
Matter 5 version acts as powerful armor, granting four
soak dice without hindering mobility at all.
Furthermore, stabbing and cutting weapons only deal
bashing, as they cannot penetrate the cloth. Another
variant doesn't just heal the user but harms their
enemies.
Memento Mori
Mage Storyteller's Companion page 62
Mind 3, Spirit 3
The Mage awakens the spirit of an object, gives it
complete information about their consciousness, and
then lulls it back to sleep. This spirit then acts as a
backup copy of the Mage's consciousness. This spirit
can be used to restore the consciousness of the Mage
and is particularly useful as insurance against
Technocratic tampering.
Pretty-Shinies
Mage Storyteller's Companion page 63
Correspondence 1, Entropy 1, Matter 1, Mind 1, Prime 1, Spirit 1
This effect helps the Mage find objects with some
magic to them. It gives no information on what the
object is, so it can be anything from a lucky penny to a
Wraith's fetter or a Werewolf's weapon.
Talisman Tattoos
World of Darkness: Outcasts page 91
Matter 4, Life 3, Prime 3
Converts a nonliving and nonmagical object into a
tattoo on the Mage's body at the cost of a point of
Quintessence. The tattoo can be released from the
Mage's body by using this rote and spending a point of
Quintessence.
Talisman Transmogrification
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 225
Matter 3, Prime 3
With a number of success beating the Talisman's
rating, this rote allows a Mage to reshape a Talisman.
Walking Chair
Hidden Lore page 16
Matter 4, Spirit 4, Prime 2
This rote animates inanimate objects. It summons
spirits who can possess them and gives them the ability
to move around.
Watchdog
Dead Magic 2 page 123
Matter 3, Prime 2
Stating a trigger for the effect at casting, an object is
imbued with the ability to do one action when that
trigger is activated. The most well-known example are
the standing stones around Britain falling on those who
try to take them down.
Repair and Reinforcement
Mages tend to be a bit rough on their equipment, often
having to replace things. This collection of rotes are
those involved in repairing broken and damaged objects
and making objects work better, whether that is through
making them harder to destroy or awakening the spirit
of the object and negotiating good behavior.
Antiquing
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 61
Entropy 2, Matter 4, Prime 2
This rote is the key to the Hollow One aesthetic: it
allows the Hollow One to restore objects found at junk
sales, thrift stores and the like that are completely
nonfunctional to full function.
The Aura Adamantium
Mage Storyteller's Companion page 62
Matter 3 or 5
Effects an extreme hardening of an object to make it
harder to break. At Matter 3, it becomes difficult but
not impossible to break, but at Matter 5, the object can
only be destroyed by magickal effects.
Awaken the Inanimate
Inanimate Objects 91
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 218
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 187
Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition page 607
Spirit 3
This rote causes the spirit of an inanimate object to
become awake and aware. Though they cannot do much
on their own, they will often help those who treat them
well in small ways: an awakened gun may misfire when
used by an enemy, or an awakened building might cause
problems for burglars. The spirit of an object is more
powerful depending on how old and psychically-charged
it is: brand new objects have weaker spirits than
heirlooms that have been actively used and well-treated
for generations. The stronger spirits are also harder to
awaken.
Bambolai
Tradition Book: Cult of Ecstasy (First Edition) page 66
Spirit 3 or Matter 2, Prime 2
With this, a Cultist can make a drug more intense.
With Spirit, the spirit of the drug is awakened to
improve it, with Matter and Prime the drug is charged
with Quintessence. Either way, each success doubles the
potency of the drug, and more than five successes causes
it to require a difficulty 8 Stamina roll to avoid blacking
out.
Berate the Demon
Dead Magic page 57
Spirit 3, Matter 3
By berating their equipment, a Mage can reduce the
difficulty of the next ritual they use it in by one.
Caffeine Plus
Guide to the Technocracy page 211
Life 3, Time 2, Dimensional Science 1, Mind 1
Through the Synthetic Ritual technique (see Guide to
the Technocracy page 211), a Progenitor can break
down caffeine molecules and rebuild them into a far
more potent version of the compound. Each dose includes
one of the following benefits:
• sleep is no longer necessary for the duration of the
Procedure
• concentration is easier so Empower Mind has a -2
difficulty
• the ability to see other Dimensions
• tasks taking half the time but at a +2 difficulty.
It also comes with one of the following drawbacks:
• the user is edge and disturbed. Willpower rolls are at
+2 difficulty, +3 specifically related to emotional
outbursts
• the user burns off one point of Primal Energy per
hour, losing health levels when they run out of
stored energy
• the user is unconscious for twice the duration after
the Procedure ends.
Like Clockwork
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 194
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 163
Entropy 3
The Mage protects an object from Entropy and decay,
allowing it to run perfectly for years. Mystics tend to
perform this with small charms, whereas Technomages
use regular maintenance on their devices.
Maintain Device
Order of Reason page 83
Prime 3
Allows the Mage to refuel a Device with new
quintessence from a Node.
Obsidian Steel
Dead Magic page 77
Matter 4
Obsidian was the preferred material for blades in pre-
Columbian Mesoamerica. It is, unfortunately, fragile,
though otherwise it is a near-perfect material for
weapons. Obsidian Steel gives obsidian the durability of
a harder stone or even metal.
Penny Dreadful's Bright New Penny
Book of Shadows page 142
Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition page 608
Matter 3 or 4, Prime 2, Time 2
Penny Dreadful designed this rote to restore old items
to new condition, making her a rather effective
antiquer. The Matter 3 version restores, the Matter 4
version recreates fully the object at an earlier point in its
timeline.
Perfection of the True Form
Book of Crafts page 41
Matter 3
This rote allows alchemists of the Children of
Knowledge to perfect an object. This will do things like
make bullet-proof glass impervious to all bullets but
doesn't provide further defenses against anything else.
Perpetual Motion
Technocracy: Iteration X page 49
Forces 5, Prime 2
This Procedure alters and creates Forces so that an
object can continue to move without external actions or
fuel. The simplest use is in setting things into motion so
that they don't ever stop, but alternate uses include
operating a vehicle without the need of fuel.
Despite the name, this requires at least five successes
to make permanent.
Shaman's Craft
Tradition Book: Dreamspeakers (Revised) page 68
Matter 3, Spirit 3, optional Prime 2
An ancient rote devised by the Spirit Smiths, allowing
them to repair and improve broken objects. While
working, this rote will at least temporarily (permanently
with enough successes) awaken the spirit of the object
being repaired. Prime 2 is necessary if the object has
significant missing parts.
Minor damage can be fixed with only one success, and
three will repair all but the most severe damage.
Vitality
Order of Reason page 82
Prime 2
Through fine craftsmanship, this rote perfects the
pattern of an object, adding health levels to it which
must be removed before it begins to take damage.
Transmutation
For a Mage, it is a simple enough thing to transmute
one substance into another. Transforming something
into gold is a popular technique, but others include
transmuting materials back into their raw state, or even
faking the transmutation into a valuable substance.
Back to the Earth
Hidden Lore page 51
Matter 4, Life 3, Prime 2
Vulgar enough that few non-Marauders would try it,
this rote transforms inorganic matter into living wood.
Back to the Earth
Book of Crafts page 74
Matter 3
This effect reverses the refinement of artificial
materials, reducing them to their raw materials.
The Golden Lion
Mage: The Sorcerer's Crusade page 271
Matter 2, optional Prime 2 or 3
This rote refines objects to their idealized states. Stone
becomes crystal, glass becomes jewelry. The object being
crafted is extraordinarily fine and tough. With Prime 2,
the object exists on both sides of the Gauntlet and can
cause aggravated damage. With Prime 3, the object may
become a Wonder or a Talisman.
Luster
The Swashbuckler's Handbook page 92
Matter 2 or Forces 2, optional Mind 2 or 3
The effect makes an inanimate object seem much
more valuable than it is: pyrite might look like gold, iron
as silver, glass as gems, etc. Matter transmutes the
surface, at least temporarily, Forces changes the
appearance more directly, and Mind makes those who
look at it believe it to be more valuable than it is.
Seeds of Gold
Book of Crafts page 40
Matter 2
Through the alchemical skill of the Children of
Knowledge, they can sprinkle a simple version of the
Philosopher's Stone in powder form over a seed, and as
the plant grows, it will convert base metals in the ground
around it into gold. Each success can create a half-ounce
of unrefined gold.
Inanimate Objects 93
Simple Transmutation
Order of Reason page 75
Matter 2
Allows the mage to transform one pure substance into
another.
Straw into Gold
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 206
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 173
Matter 2
A form of minor transmutation that can convert a
base, cheap substance into something of value, such as
straw into gold, or tears into diamonds.
Transmutation
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 204
Matter 4
The Mage can transform virtually any substance into
virtually any other. The mage can only affect one type of
material at a time.
Checklist
Convention Book: Void Engineers (Revised) page 85
Entropy 2 or Prime 5
Breaks down any task into small but logical steps to
help remove human error. With Entropy on non-
Enlightened rolls, the Void Engineer removes the
possibility of a botch. With Prime, the Void Engineer
can counteract Paradox at a one-for-one cost with Primal
Energy.
Confusing Apishtiss
Dead Magic page 131
Forces 2 or Mind 2
An Inuit shaman can enhance their shouts at a target,
disorienting them. Traditionally, this was used to cause
a particularly prized species of goose to fall from the sky,
but now it is more often used on human enemies,
raising the difficulties of their actions for the duration.
Degrade Order
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (First Edition) page 61
Entropy 2, Correspondence 2, Time 3
This rote causes things to fall apart. More specifically,
it inserts chaos into a system with Entropy and then
speeds up the decay with Time and uses
Correspondence to bound the effect so that the affected
thing becomes a closed system, and the disorder can't
"escape."
Destroy Structures
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 203
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 206
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 173
Matter 3
The Mage can break down structures by directly
attacking their Patterns.
Disintegrator
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 48
Matter 3, Prime 2
Focused through an energy weapon, a Disintegrator
causes the bonds between molecules in non-living
Matter to be destroyed, causing it to crumble to dust.
Ebon Dragon's Tide
Dragons of the East page 67
Entropy 4, Life 3, Prime 2, Matter 2
96 Enlightened Grimoire
By digging a deep pit and petitioning for the release
of the dark waters brought by the ancient black dragon,
a Wu-Keng can bring about a stream that rots flesh,
actively drowns those caught in it, and ruins the Earth
where it passes.
Jolt
Digital Web 2.0 page 112
Life 2, optional Mind 1
Gifts the Mage a burst of energy and consciousness.
This allows the Mage to endure hours or days of being
online with minimal fatigue. With Mind, a Mental
Shield is added to the effect, to protect against Mind
effects and allowing multi-tasking.
Kinetic Push
Guide to the Technocracy page 209
Forces 2
Through psychic abilities or transduction coils and
magnetic levitation, the Technocrat can create a kinetic
force to push an object. This can either manipulate an
object that is roughly the size of a person, or it can be
used as an attack.
Lobotomize
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 45
Mind 5
This procedure is only used on an Agent whose
mental health is compromised to the point of being
irreparable. This procedure completely erases large
portions of the subject's memory and personality and
damages their connection to their avatar, but at least
leaves them alive. Some Void Engineers oppose it,
preferring a dignified death.
Mershakushtu Qurdu
Dead Magic page 51
Entropy 3
This rote, whose name means "Victorious Marduk,"
reflects the fact that Babylonians understood that things
could be uncreated as they could be created, and that
history is not set in stone. This rote strengthens a
Pattern's position in the consensus.
Mutate Ephemera
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 164
Entropy 5
A Master of Entropy is capable of directly destroying
thoughts and spirits, as well as other non-physical
things.
Night Battle
Tradition Book: Dreamspeakers (Revised) page 69
Mind 4, Forces 3, Prime 2, Spirit 2
The shaman enters a deep trance and allows their
spirit to roam separately from their body. The spirit
takes the form of a large predator and can only be
perceived by Mages with Spirit sight and others with
similar perceptions. The target of this attack will seem
to have been attacked by a large predator, specifically
whichever one the Mage's spirit form took.
At least two successes must be spent to ensure that
this effect lasts for a scene, and Correspondence magick
must be used to locate any target the Mage doesn't
already know the whereabouts of. Further successes are
spent on Forces damage to the target.
Shango's Grave
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 222
Entropy 3, Forces 5, Matter 2, Prime 2
This rote creates a storm over a battlefield. The storm
specifically makes it impossible to remove the bodies,
including lightning striking anyone who does try to
remove them. Thanks to Matter, this can even create
such a storm in a dry place, creating the moisture and
the winds from nothing.
Sneaking Shadow
Book of Shadows page 139
Forces 2, Mind 2
Using tricks of the light, the Ahl-i-Batin can alter the
target's shadow. Mind is used to prevent the target from
seeing that their shadow is altered, so that only others
can see it. The target starts to become paranoid unless
they make a Willpower roll gathering as many successes
as went into the rote. If they become paranoid, they can
make a Wits + Alertness roll to realize that their shadow
is behaving oddly, or else be at -2 to all dice pools for
the duration.
Mages who notice it will immediately recognize that
magick is involved, but Sleepers must roll Willpower
Miscellaneous 97
against difficulty 8 or else feel that they are haunted by
that shadow, seeing it everywhere, for the duration.
Telekinesis
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 196 (as Telekinetic
Control)
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 198 (as
Telekinetic Control)
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 166
Forces 3
This rote allows the Mage to move objects without
touching them by manipulating the forces around it.
Unleash Nanotech Destruction
Technocracy: Iteration X page 49
Correspondence 3, Entropy 3
A kill-switch included in every DEI, if an Iterator with
a DEI defects, they can be remotely terminated by a
nanotech virus that will attack their biomechanisms and
disrupt any machines that they try to use.
Unseen Arm
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 223
Forces 5, Prime 2
The Mage can directly alter kinetic energy, creating
arbitrary amounts from nothing, or destroying it. This
allows them to give the target object whatever velocity
they want: pennies moving at the speed of bullets,
stopping a speeding train instantly, etc.
98 Enlightened Grimoire
Movement and
Communication
Teleportation and Telepathy are just two of the powers
of movement and communication at the beck-andcall
of a Mage. The ability to move long distances instantly
or even to communicate across them, is taken for
granted in the modern world of airplanes and cell
phones, but these are still powerful magicks that have
served Mages well for ages and continue to do so despite
modern technology making them less essential.
But also, Mages can go places that Sleepers can't, and
through methods that they can't. The Umbra is still the
playground of Mages, though other supernatural beings
can get there.
This chapter contains Utility rotes, which are helpful
for many different sorts of travel, rotes that Alter Distance,
allow for Astral Travel, aid in Breaking In to
places, the ability to Broadcast a thought or emotion, to
alter how we speak or perceive Language, to enter or
create Realms, send or read Secret Messages, to manage
the very dangerous Shadowlands Travel, the Sleeping
Lands of the Australian Aborigines, Teleportation,
Umbral Travel, surviving and getting to Unusual Environments
and finally, Unusual Modes of transport.
Utility
Some rotes are useful no matter what you're doing
with respect to communication and travel or are highly
specialized and not particularly big. These include techniques
for bringing possessions with you through Teleportation
and Stepping Sideways or never hitting a red
light when in a hurry on the road.
Consecration
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 181
Prime 1 or 2
The Mage can attune an objects Pattern to their own,
making them count as the same for many purposes. For
instance, a consecrated object will remain with them
when they change shape, step sideways, or teleport.
With Prime 2, this can be accomplished on a living
thing, and is essential in bonding a Familiar.
Joyride
Hidden Lore page 14
Correspondence 2, Entropy 2 or Forces 2
100 Enlightened Grimoire
With this rote, a Mage can make sure that traffic lights
aren't a problem while they drive. Entropy alters chance
so that the lights happen to be green for them, and
Forces does it directly.
Pathfinding
Infinite Tapestry page 182
Spirit 1, Entropy 1
By watching the ebb and flow of the Avatar Storm,
the Mage can find places and times where it doesn't rage
quite as strongly. This rote gives a temporary dice pool
for soaking damage from the Avatar Storm.
Pixie Lead
Book of Shadows page 145
Mind 3, Correspondence 2
Causes the target to perceive one route while
following a different one. Very useful for evading
pursuit anywhere but a wide-open field.
Remembrance
Infinite Tapestry page 183
Mind 2, Prime 2
By creating a Body of Light with Prime and a Psychic
Impression with Mind, the Mage creates a snapshot of
their Pattern and persona. For each success, the Mage
can avoid Disembodiment for an additional day while
remaining in the Umbra, though at the beginning of
each day, the Mage must spend a point of quintessence
to power this effect.
Remote Piloting Override
Hidden Lore page 53
Forces 3, Prime 2, Matter 1
Iteration X has developed this technique to take
remote control of any mundane motor vehicle. The
driver/pilot can roll Strength + Drive at difficulty 7 to
resist this effect.
Teleoperate
Convention Book: Void Engineers (Revised) page 87
Correspondence 2, Forces 2
Though both the New World Order and Iteration X
are better known for it, there are plenty of hackers
among the Void Engineers. These hackers developed
the technology to remotely seize the controls of
electronically controlled vehicles and devices, allowing
Void Engineers to operate drones in inhospitable
locations without building them from scratch, among
other things.
Wayfarer's Reckoning
Mage: The Sorcerer's Crusade page 271
Correspondence 2, Forces 1, Matter 1
This rote allows the Mage to get the lay of the land (or
air for Skyriggers) around them. With Correspondence
giving the general notion, Matter providing a map of
physical obstacles and Forces mapping the moving
elements, such as weather, fires, rivers, etc.
We'll Get There
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 64
Correspondence 1, Entropy 2
Combining good luck with good direction sense, this
guarantees that a Hollow One will get where they want
to go, even if they don't know precisely where it is.
Alter Distance
Not all travel has to be instantaneous. Often, just
traveling quickly, effectively covering a much greater distance
in a shorter time is enough to make a difference.
Ala Wai (Short Waters)
Dead Magic 2 page 27
Correspondence 3
Early Polynesian wayfinders were able to travel great
distances over the water, making their boats move five
miles with each paddlestroke.
Merlin's Ride
Tradition Book: Verbena (First Edition) page 64
Correspondence 3 or 4
The Verbena can cross great distances quickly by
riding a horse with this rote. It allows them to move so
quickly that the scenery blurs and, sooner than
expected, they arrive. Each success causes the travel time
to decrease by 20%, to a minimum of 0.
Movement and Communication 101
Correspondence 4 is needed to take others with the
Mage.
The Seven-League Stride
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 185
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 189
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 159
Correspondence 3
This rote allows the Mage to step from one place to
another nearly instantly. Depending on specifics of the
Mage's paradigm, the Mage may disappear in one place
and appear in another, or may be seen to blur past,
moving between places at incredible speed.
Shortcut
Order of Reason page 67
Correspondence 2 or 3
Originally a Celestial Master procedure, this rote
finds unreproducible shortcuts between two points.
Works very well when paired with Navigation, this rote
can decrease travel time by up to 50%. For single day
trips, each success up to five decreases travel time by
10%, for longer trips each increases distance covered
that day by 10%. The routes found are often
surprisingly short and contain confusing landmarks
which prevent them from being found again without
another use of this rote.
Astral Travel
The easiest way to reach the High Umbra is through
Astral travel. This is generally safer than actually physical
traveling places, only sending your consciousness,
tied to your body by a silver cord.
Astral Projection
Dead Magic 2 page 103 (as Gand-Rei "Chant Riding")
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 178
Mind 4
102 Enlightened Grimoire
Astral Projection releases the Mage's mind, free of the
body. When Astral Projecting, the Mage can access the
Astral Umbra. They can also move around the material
world as an insubstantial being that can travel anywhere
so long as they think about it.
Internalize Ephemeral Object
Infinite Tapestry page 182
Spirit 4, Prime 3, Mind 1, possibly other spheres
A Mage employing an Astral Sojourn can use this
effect to bring an object back from the Umbra into the
physical world. First, the Mage uses Mind 1 to Mentally
Empower themselves so that they can study every aspect
of the object. When the Mage returns to his body, the
object's Pattern is stored in the Mage's mind, and needs
to find an appropriate physical object to use the Prime
and Spirit spheres, as well as any other necessary for the
object's effects, to invest the essence of the Pattern into
the new object.
Leap Beyond
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 227
Spirit 5, Mind 4
Less dangerous than traveling physically, with this
rote a Mage can Astral Project beyond the Horizon and
into the Deep Umbra.
Untether
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 207
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 211
Mind 5
This rote allows the Mage to separate their mind from
their body and become an Astral traveler. See Astral
Travel on pages 87-88 and 476-478 of Mage: The
Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition.
Breaking In
Magick can be used to gain entry to places that are
normally closed to a Mage. These rotes specialize in getting
through locks, bypassing alarms and otherwise entering
secure locations.
Amon Maat, "Hidden Justice"
Book of Crafts page 57
Correspondence 3, Life 2;
Spirit 3
The Hem-Ka Sobk mage mixes some of their blood
into cold water and wash their feet, sprinkle it on a door
or windowsill, and whisper a chant to their protector.
This allows them to bypass the door and enter a home
while the occupants sleep. Furthermore, they can sense
everything in the house. Correspondence and Life do
this directly (including keeping the people asleep), Spirit
enters via the Umbra and summons a spirit to keep the
residents asleep.
Dingo's Touch
Dead Magic 2 page 63
Entropy 1, Forces 2
This rote allows the Mage to find their way into places
that they normally couldn't, just like dingos tend to do.
Locks open, doors unlock, and windows just slide open.
Infiltration
Order of Reason page 68
Correspondence 3
Originating with the Ksirafai, Infiltration allows the
Mage to bypass security entirely and enter any building.
Only magick can detect how the Mage accessed the
building. The number of successes required is at the
Storyteller's discretion based on how tight the security
is, which is at least one more than the Perception of the
highest ranked guard that needs to be bypassed.
Pass the Key
Orphan's Survival Guide page 124
Entropy 2, Matter 2, optional Forces 2
This rote acts as a mystical lockpick. It unlocks a target
door. Forces is necessary to handle electronic locks.
Safecracker
Hidden Lore page 16
Entropy 2, Matter 1
The Mage randomly twists the dial on a lock and
manages to unlock it. For each success, the Mage learns
one digit of the combination, more successes are needed
Movement and Communication 103
to work out longer combinations. An additional success
is needed for time-locks.
Thief in the Night
Book of Crafts page 102
Correspondence 1, Forces 1 or 2, optional Entropy 2
The Knights Templar developed this effect to defeat
electronic alarm systems. It allows them to detect the
presence of such a system and how it is activated. With
Entropy and Forces 2, the Templar can disrupt such
systems. If Matter is substituted for Forces, it can detect
mechanical traps instead.
Broadcast
Sometimes, a Mage needs to get a message out NOW.
Broadcast rotes do this, passing an emotion or information
along through mystical means.
Chain of Whispers
The Swashbuckler's Handbook page 93
Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition page 608
Mind 3, Correspondence 2
The Mage speaks a rumor (truth doesn't matter) and
this effect causes that rumor to spread rapidly. Those
who hear it have a magickal compulsion to spread the
rumor so long as they believe it, and it will pass through
two people per success.
Cry of Distress
Order of Reason page 79
Mind 3
Though gestures and intentions, two Mages from the
same organization can pass basic messages, particularly
warnings.
Death Song
Tradition Book: Celestial Chorus page 64
Life 2, Time 2, Prime 1, Mind 1
Using Life to gain the time needed before death, the
Chorister processes their memories and composing
them into a final song, recording their stories and often
including a final prophecy. When this rote is finished,
the Mage dies.
Dreamcry
Tradition Book: Dreamspeakers (First Edition) page 67
Correspondence 2 or 3, Mind 2, Spirit 2
The Dreamspeaker can send a vision into the dreams
of someone they know. With Correspondence 3, they
can contact more than one person simultaneously.
Dreamline
Tradition Book: Cult of Ecstasy (First Edition) page 66
Mind 2 or 3, Correspondence 2, Time 2 or 3, or Correspondence
3, Spirit 2
There is a bond that all Cultists share. With this rote,
a Mage can reach through this bond. They can send an
empathic impression (Mind 2) or a specific message
(Mind 3) to other Cultists, Time 3 permits many
messages to be sent in a short time period. The variant
with Spirit sends a spirit to deliver the message rather
than relying on this bond.
Flower Gesture
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (Revised) page 71
Mind 3, Time 3
This is one of the most effective teaching rotes ever
devised. With it, an Akashic can instantaneously
transmit their ideas in a burst of thought to another,
essentially accelerated Telepathy.
Override Signal
Book of Shadows page 144
Forces 2 or Life 4
With this rote, a Virtual Adept can intercept and jam
a signal. With Forces, this covers the electromagnetic
spectrum: infrared, ultraviolet, visible light, radio, etc.
With Life, this can extend into signals within a target's
brain, potentially capable of putting them into a coma.
More successes are required for less familiar signals.
Pirated Media Blitz
Technocracy: New World Order page 49
Mind 4, Correspondence 3, Forces 2
Over an area determined by number of successes, this
procedure is used by the New World Order to hijack
television, radio, etc. signals and transmit "emergency
bulletins" regarding "dangerous criminals." If the
104 Enlightened Grimoire
procedure succeeds, the viewers will believe that the
transmission is real, and become convinced that the
people described are dangerous criminals.
Point-to-Point Narrow-Band Transmission
Hidden Lore page 18
Forces 2 or 3, Correspondence 2, optional Prime 2
Forces 2/Correspondence 2 allows the Mage to
transmit to an active device, hijacking or altering the
signal. Adding Forces 3/Prime 2 allows them to
transmit to a device that is currently off.
Public Posting
Hidden Lore page 20
Mind 2 or 3, Correspondence 2, Prime 2
A Virtual Adept can fire off a broadcast to all Mages,
whether at computers or not, with this rote. Usually a
short message or emotional sentiment. With Mind 3,
the message can be detailed and specific.
Sound/Thought Transfer
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 63
Forces 2, Mind 3
Hollow Ones can evoke certain thoughts and
emotions using sounds and do so by recording the
information and playing it underneath music or other
sounds, so as to remain hidden from those who aren't
supposed to hear it.
Subliminal Impulse
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 206
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 210
Mind 2
The Mage can transmit a single word or image into
the target's subconscious.
Subliminal Transmission
Digital Web 2.0 page 113
Mind 2 or 4, Correspondence 2 or 3, optional Entropy 2
From the Digital Web, the Mage can send subliminal
messages to people watching a screen, one with
Correspondence 2, but many screens with
Correspondence 3. Mind 2 only allows emotional
manipulation as in Subliminal Impulse, whereas Mind
4 allows full Possession.
Movement and Communication 105
Telepathy
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 206
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 210
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 178
Mind 3
The Mage is able to communicate directly with the
target, mind-to-mind.
Temper Viasilicos
Order of Reason page 107
Correspondence 2, Mind 1
This allows the Mage to use a Viasilicos, a
geometrically perfect crystal created by the Order of
Reason, to transmit a message to another Viasilicos.
One success beyond distance charts allows for a single
sentence, two successes allows for a paragraph and three
allows for a conversation.
Thunder's Gauntlet
Blood Treachery page 88
Correspondence 3, Mind 3 and either Prime 2, Forces 3 or Matter
3 or Life 3
Originating in House Tytalus, this ancient Hermetic
rote allows the Mage to issue a Certamen challenge, no
matter how far the opponent is. The original version
used Pentacles of Mars and invocations to Gabriel and
delivered the call with a painful thunderclap, but
modern mages have adapted it to allow for spikes
erupting from the ground (via Matter) or internal
hemorrhaging (Life).
Language
No one can speak every language. A Mage, however,
can pretend that they do. With these rotes, Mages can
ensure that they understand and are understood in any
language, including languages long dead and the languages
of animals. They can also confound languages,
preventing others from being able to communicate effectively.
Adder's Tongue
Tradition Book: Verbena (Revised) page 64
Mind 2
With this rote, a Verbena can understand the speech
of all animals within earshot.
Auspicious Dialogues
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (Revised) page 69
Mind 3 or Entropy 2, Mind 2
Though not direct translation, this rote allows the
Akashic to understand and use slang and dialect of a
language that they already speak. Each success lowers
social difficulties by one for a specific subculture or
speaking style.
Babel
Hidden Lore page 51
Mind 4
The Marauder causes those around them to speak
their native language. The number of successes
determine how many people are affected for how long.
They don't even realize that the language they're
speaking has changed without a Wits + Awareness roll
(difficulty 8) or until they try to speak with someone not
affected.
Ravensong
Orphan's Survival Guide page 126
Life 2, Mind 2
Hollow Ones are so adept at gossip that they
developed this rote, which allows them to communicate
with small, smart animals such as rats, ferrets, cats and
corvids.
Semiotic Communication
Convention Book: Syndicate (Revised) page 75
Mind 2, optional Matter 2
Syndicate agents know the symbols of the modern age
and can use them to communicate. Whether it's the cut
of a suit and the color of a tie, or graffiti on a wall, or
pop culture references, they can send messages secretly
using these symbols. Only Mind is needed for most uses,
but to place symbols that will be read by someone once
they're found, Matter is needed as well.
Speaking in Tongues
Tradition Book: Celestial Chorus page 64
Mind 3
106 Enlightened Grimoire
This Chorister rote allows the Mage to speak in their
language while causing their listeners to hear it in their
own.
Time's Tongue
Tradition Book: Celestial Chorus (Revised) page 59
Mind 3, Time 2
This rote allows the Mage to translate or comprehend
a dead language, with more successes translating to a
better translation. One success would allow a common
dead language like Latin or Greek to be understood, but
more successes are needed for more obscure languages.
Tower of Babel/Speak in Tongues
Tradition Book: Order of Hermes (First Edition) page 64
Forces 2, Mind 2 or Entropy 2
Two related rotes from an obscure Hermetic House,
Tower of Babel inserts chaos into speech with Entropy
to cause the sounds to come out as complete gibberish.
In contrast, Speak in Tongues uses Mind to allow the
target to speak any language that the Mage does through
similar techniques of altering the sound itself.
What Did You Say?
Hidden Lore page 48
Correspondence 2, Mind 2
One of the most basic and useful Nephandic tricks is
this mystical form of gaslighting. The target is caused to
mishear perfectly ordinary conversation to be vaguely
ominous and hostile.
Realms
Only the most powerful of Mages ever need to worry
about creating Realms, but those that do need these
tools. The ability to forge a realm, to build a gauntlet
around it, or even to break into the gauntlet of someone
else's realm are essential for Mages who spend a lot of
time in the Umbra.
Breach Alien Gauntlet
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 42
Dimensional Science 4
This Procedure allows the Void Engineer to breach
gauntlets other than the one around the Earth, such as
around other planets or more general Horizon realms.
Create Gauntlet
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 42
Dimensional Science 5
At the highest levels, a Void Engineer can create a
Gauntlet around a region of the Deep Umbra. One
level is created for each two successes, and the duration
is determined by the successes spent on it.
Create Horizon Realm Construct
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 48
Dimensional Science 5, Matter 4, Prime 4
With a huge amount of planning, a Void Engineer
(usually with a backup team) can create a Horizon
Realm and build the Construct within it. This can
require huge numbers of successes, to the point where
large Horizon Realms can require hundreds of
construction specialists to build.
Secret Messages
Just as quick communication can be important for a
Mage, secret communication can save lives. These rotes
are used to obscure the information in a message, to
make it only readable to a select few or else to ruin it
entirely so that it cannot be read by their enemies.
Corrupt Text
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page 88
Matter 2, optional Mind 2, optional Entropy 3
Weavers are paranoid about their knowledge ever
falling into the hands of their enemies. This rote allows
them to destroy texts rather than risk losing them. The
simplest version smears the ink on the pages, ruining
them. With Mind, specific passages can be targeted, and
with Entropy the effect can hang and trigger if someone
other than the Mage themselves opens the book.
Craft Tome
Order of Reason page 89
Movement and Communication 107
Entropy 3, Mind 1
Whereas Cypher Wheel encrypts a short message,
Craft Tome creates an entire work of novel length
which has the hidden meaning encoded throughout
it. A combination of secret meanings, subtle themes
and clever wordplay convey complex messages to the
reader who knows how to find such messages.
Cypher Wheel
Order of Reason page 77
Mind 1 or Entropy 1, optional Matter 2
The High Guild and the Ksirafai especially, but the
Order of Reason as a whole, has a need to be able to
communicate securely. This technique uses Mind 1
to encrypt a message so that only the intended
recipient can read it. However, the Entropy 1 version
can be used to attempt to crack the code and read a
message without authorization. With Matter 2, a
secret message can be included on the paper which is
invisible to the naked eye, and only discoverable by
someone using Matter to render it visible.
Neon-Mail
Fallen Tower: Las Vegas pas 119
Forces 2, Life 1, Time 4, optional Correspondence 3
Reality Hackers in Las Vegas developed a technique
for altering the message on a neon sign when a
specific person walks near it, so as to send them a
hidden message. With Correspondence included, the
message can appear on any sign in an area, instead of
a specific sign.
Unraveling the Text
Book of Shadows page 142
Entropy 2, Matter 2, Prime 2
An active defense for Hermetic texts from
outsiders, this rote causes someone attempting to
read a book to start losing their place, to jump around
the page, and be unable to focus.
Unseen Nomenclature
Book of Shadows page 142
Mind 2, Matter 2, Prime 2
Hermetics often need to hide their teachings in
plain sight. This rote allows them to do so in a book.
Mages who read it will be able to tell that there is
108 Enlightened Grimoire
something hidden, but only those who know how to
parse it or who succeed at Wits + Intelligence difficulty
8 roll. The more distinct from the printed text the
message is, the more successes are needed to hide it.
Writing on the Wall
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 64
Matter 1, Mind 3
Hollow Ones can leave symbols written on walls via
graffiti. To understand then, though, requires this rote.
One success gives the user the gist of the message, more
add details.
Shadowlands Travel
One of the most dangerous places that a Mage can go,
the Shadowlands are another name for the lands of the
Dead. For more information see Mage: The Ascension
20th Anniversary Edition pages 99-100 and Wraith:
The Oblivion 20th Anniversary Edition in its entirety.
Agama Re Sojourn/Agama Te Sojourn
Tradition Book: Euthanatos (First Edition) page 67
Tradition Book: Euthanatos (Revised) page
Entropy 4, Life 2, Spirit 3 or 4
This rote allows the Euthanatos to fall to the cusp of
death and lets them mimic a Wraith and enter the
Underworld, and to bring companions with them if
they have Spirit 4. It has a threshold of seven successes,
before duration is considered. Entropy and Life give the
Mage the mystical attributes of death, and Spirit allows
the Mage to cross the Shroud.
The Mage exists for all purposes as a Wraith,
inhabiting a corpus with 10 health levels and no wound
penalties. The Spirit sphere is necessary to heal any
wounds that the Mage sustains. Ghosts, however, can
sense that the Mage is still among the living with a
Perception + Awareness roll. As a Wraith, the Mage may
walk through solid barriers at a cost of a single Health
level.
If the Mage loses all their Health levels, the Mage
gains a new Entropy Synergy trait and is then drawn into
a Harrowing, which is a kind of anti-Seeking: a symbolic
vision quest where the purpose is to cause the Mage to
embrace Oblivion rather than the spur them to personal
Enlightenment. If the Mage succeeds, the effect ends,
and they are brought back to their physical body. If they
Movement and Communication 109
fail, that is, they reject their Avatar or deny Ascension,
they make a Willpower roll at difficulty 9. If they
succeed, the effect ends and they (and any companions)
return to their body. If they fail, they return to their
body and lose a level of Arete. With a botch, Oblivion
consumes the Mage, and their body dies, and they
become a Spectre.
Death's Passage
The Swashbuckler's Handbook page 93
Entropy 4, Spirit 3, Life 2
An extreme technique for bypassing walls, this allows
the Mage to step into the Underworld in order to get
around. Of course, travel through the Underworld isn't
safe, and the Mage still must get across and return. The
Mage also acquires Jhor from this trip.
The Gate of Culsu
Dead Magic 2 page 144
Spirit 4, optional Correspondence 4
By drawing a representation of a doorway, the Mage
can open a gateway to a point in the Underworld.
Correspondence is needed to go anywhere other than
the same Shadowlands reflection of where the door was
drawn.
Going Under the Cloak
Dead Magic 2 page 103
Life 2, Mind 4
The Mage enters a trance, suspending themselves
between life and death, and projecting their mind into
the Shadowlands as an astral form.
Wings of the Lasa
Dead Magic 2 page 145
Life 3, Spirit 3
When in the Underworld, this rote grows wings on
the back of the Mage, made from the local ephemera.
Sleeping Land
Sleeping Lands are not places that most Mages will
ever encounter, being essentially unique to Australian
Aboriginal cultures. They are an example of a Shallow
Realm, artificial realms that must be maintained actively
to survive and which can only be interacted with by a
specific class of individuals. For details see Dead Magic
2 pages 54-55.
Liquor's Calling
Dead Magic 2 page 65
Mind 1, Spirit 2
The rote causes an Aboriginal Australian who has
gotten drunk to gain a distant connection to the
Dreamtime.
Presentation of the Passage Stick
Dead Magic 2 page 65
Spirit 3
The Mage sends out a spiritual call into the
Dreamtime introducing themselves to anyone or
anything who is aware of such things, such as the local
Aboriginal Mages. It is considered to be extremely rude
to cross into another family's territory without doing
this.
Sense the Dreamsong
Dead Magic 2 page 66
Correspondence 1, Spirit 1
This allows the Mage to ascertain the boundaries and
strength of the Dreamtime where they are.
Sing the Dreaming Earth
Dead Magic 2 page 54
Mind 3 or 5, Prime 5, Spirit 5
This allows the Mage to create a variant of a
shallowing called a Sleeping Land (rules in Dead Magic
2, page 54-55), with area determined by the number of
successes. This is a type of Shallow Realm, a minor
realm that is very close to the world and don't form
accidentally.
Songline Soaring
Dead Magic 2 page 66
Spirit 3
By humming a Songline, the Mage can take advantage
of the spatial distortion of the Dreamtime to move to
any other point along the line instantaneously.
Songline Walking
Dead Magic 2 page 66
Spirit 1
This allows the Mage to detect and follow the path of
a Songline that they have been introduced to.
Teleportation
One of the great classic magickal abilities, teleportation
effects transmit a person from one place to another
instantly. Whether transporting just the Mage alone or
bringing along companions and even entire vehicles,
this class or rotes make problems of movement and distance
easily solved.
Alley Vanish
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 61
Correspondence 3, Mind 2
On the Hollow One's turf, they know all the short
cuts and non-obvious ways to get around. So, if they
need to escape from pursuit, they can use this rote to
vanish in an alleyway.
Daedalus Gateway
Technocracy: New World Order page 49
Correspondence 4, Mind 3
This procedure teleports a target but leaves them not
realizing that they've been teleported. It can be defeated
by Correspondence senses or expenditure of Willpower
to overcome the Mind aspect.
The Endless Pool
Book of Crafts page 58
Correspondence 4, optional Life 3 and Time 4 or 5
The Mage of the Hem-Ka Sobk finds or creates a large
pool of water, marks the boundary with their spit and
urine, and puts in a drop of their blood. When the
victim steps into the pool, they are pulled into the water
and transported to another location. A stronger version
Movement and Communication 111
holds the victim there, suspended in time, where Time
4 does so after some duration, and 5 can do so
indefinitely.
Free Conjunction
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 188
Correspondence 5
Like Hermes Portal, this creates a path between two
points that anyone can step through. However, this
allows the environments to freely mix, rather than
keeping them on different sides of the portal.
Heaven's Tumbling Pebbles
Dragons of the East page 66
Correspondence 3, 4 or 5, Entropy 2
By crushing a blue stone in a blue porcelain bowl, a
Wu-Keng can flee to a safe location. Entropy 2 makes
the location random, but safe. Correspondence 3 takes
the Wu-Keng there, 4 lets them take a group, but 5
randomly overlays many different locations into a
chaotic mess, so that no one knows which location they
will end up attached to when it ends.
Hermes Portal
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 186
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 190
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 160
Correspondence 4
Creates a free-standing portal between two locations,
stable enough that anyone can walk through it.
Mercury's Bridge
Mage: The Sorcerer's Crusade page 272
Correspondence 3 or 4, optional Spirit 4
This effect allows the Mage to travel from one place
to another. The Correspondence 4 version allows them
to take others along, and Spirit can be included to allow
transport across the Gauntlet.
Riding the Railroad
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 62
Correspondence 3 or 4
The Hollow One method of teleportation from
Chantry to Chantry, this provides instantaneous travel
at the cost of physical exhaustion, severe jet lag, and
other consequences that are normal to mundane travel.
Shuttle
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 41
Correspondence 3 or 4
This allows a Void Engineer to teleport or, with
Correspondence 4, to bring others with them.
Voidcast
Convention Book: Void Engineers (Revised) page 87
Correspondence 4, Dimensional Science 3 or Correspondence 5,
Dimensional Science 5
Thanks to advancements in quantum field inversion
and particle matrix fluctuation, a Void Engineer can
create a Faraday cage to contain everything to transport
and then teleport the contents to wherever they want.
The lesser version is restricted to anyplace within the
Spatial Horizon, but the greater version can go
anywhere.
Umbral Travel
The Umbra is a dangerous place. Fortunately, virtually
no Sleepers can gain access to it. Mages, on the
other hand, barge in and make themselves at home,
crafting Realms and bargaining with the inhabitants.
To do these things, the rotes of this section are essential.
Breach Gauntlet Undetectably
112 Enlightened Grimoire
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 42
Dimensional Science 3
At a cost of requiring two more successes than
Stepping Sideways, a Void Engineer can dissolve the
Gauntlet, step through, and restore it, making it much
harder to detect their passage. This technique can also
extract someone or something that has become trapped
within the Gauntlet.
Breach the Gauntlet
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 215
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 218
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 189
Spirit 4
Like Stepping Sideways, this rote allows the Mage to
enter the Umbra. However, this creates a gateway that
others can use as well, allowing the Mage to bring them
along.
Break the Dreamshell
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 215
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 219
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 189
Spirit 5
A Master of Spirit can finally step beyond the
Horizon, leaving the part of the Umbra that is
particularly close to Earth (or to whatever Realm they
happen to be in) and going into the Deep Umbra.
Bridge of Blood
Infinite Tapestry page 181
Spirit 4, Prime 3
This brutal rote allows the Mage to grab a random
spirit (or a specific one if they can do so) and forces it to
manifest in the same space as the Mage while the Mage
is Stepping Sideways. This sacrifices the spirit to allow
the Mage to cross the Gauntlet safely, causing the Avatar
Storm to attack it instead of them. The Mage needs at
least as many successes as their avatar rating, must spend
one point of quintessence per dot of avatar. The spirit
then takes the damage from the Avatar Storm instead of
the mage.
Movement and Communication 113
Deep Umbra Travel
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 215
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 219
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 189
Spirit 5
The Deep Umbra is a dangerous place: large tracts of
barren territory, distances between anything of interest
are large but variable, hallucinations and visions are
common, as are bizarre spirits less tied to the
consciousness of humanity. Masters of Spirit are the
only ones who can travel there with any degree of safety,
others are in danger from the environment nearly
instantaneously.
Deep Universe Survival
Convention Book: Void Engineers (Revised) page 87
Dimensional Science 5
Chairs of the Void Engineers build computer
simulations and particle emitters that will create a
bubble of survivable reality to protect them from the
Deep Universe. Usually, this is applied to vehicles
rather than to individuals.
Detect the Dream Gateway
Book of Shadows page 145
Correspondence 1, Spirit 1
This rote allows the Mage to find places where the
Gauntlet is unusually weak.
Dream Locus
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 227
Spirit 2, Matter 1
This rote allows a Dreamspeaker to bring their
material belongings with them when they use Stepping
Sideways.
Dreamquest
The Spirit Ways page 92
Spirit 3 or 4, Prime 2, Entropy 2, Mind 2;
Mind 4, Prime 2, Entropy 2
Shamans have long known that making changes in
the spirit world can change the physical world. Drawing
upon that connection, this rote lets the shaman know
what needs to be done to accomplish their goal, though
it does so by giving them a quest to accomplish, with
difficulty generally scaling with the alterations to reality
that they want to make. The resulting effects occur
purely coincidentally, outside the control of the characters.
This rote in fact begins the effect, with Spirit 3 required
to enter the Umbra and begin, 4 to bring companions
with them, and Mind 4 to use Untether to enter
the Umbra themselves.
Gateway Transport
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 48
Correspondence 5, Dimensional Science 5
One of the most powerful transportation procedures
that the Void Engineers have developed, this opens a
gate to a point in the Deep Universe, one large enough
to pilot a Voidship through.
Holopuni'au'nei
Book of Crafts page 74
Spirit 3
A Kopa Loei rote that translates literally to "to sail
around the world" or "to avoid the physical world." This
is Stepping Sideways.
Karmic Inversion
Dead Magic 2 page 81
Prime 4, Life 3
By linking themselves to another Mage through
horrific torture, the Mage is able to avoid taking damage
from the Avatar Storm, instead shunting it off to the
linked target.
Leap Sideways
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 227
Spirit 3, Correspondence 3
An improved version of Stepping Sideways, Leap
Sideways allows the Mage to not only enter or exit the
Umbra, but also to transport themselves anywhere on
Earth or the Near Umbra.
Long-Distance Universal Travel
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 42
Dimensional Science 5
114 Enlightened Grimoire
This allows the Void Engineer to travel the Deep
Universe freely, and even breach Horizon Realms
without using the proper entrance. This rote is also
sometimes called Puncture Reality Barrier, as that is the
name that some Void Engineers give to the Horizon.
Moving the World Walls
Technocracy: New World Order page 49 (as Strengthen
Gauntlet)
Tradition Book: Dreamspeakers (Revised) page 66
Spirit 2
This rote allows a shaman to strengthen or weaken
the Gauntlet in an area.
Reverie
Order of Reason page 85
Spirit 3
Allows the Mage of the Order of Reason to enter the
Umbra where the Gauntlet is weak (rating 5 or below).
Note: in Sorcerer's Crusade, it is indicated that this is
involuntary, and that surviving this and making it back
is necessary for a member of the Order of Reason to
advance to Spirit 4.
Schedule of Heaven
Dead Magic page 78
Spirit 3, Time 1
The Long Count governs the spirit worlds as well as
the mundane. A Mage who studies it can use it to find
times when crossing into the Umbra will be easier
because the spirit worlds are closer. Successes decrease
the difficulty to cross the Gauntlet.
Shield of the Soul
Infinite Tapestry page 183
Forged by Dragon's Fire page 79
Spirit 2, Prime 3
This rote allows the Mage to hide their avatar inside
of a Familiar. If this rote is in effect while crossing the
Gauntlet, it allows the Mage to avoid the Avatar Storm,
though Paradox must still be rolled for damage. The
Mage can attempt to bring others along with them this
way, but each extra person requires an additional
success, the Mage whose Familiar is serving as the Shield
must be the one who brings everyone across, and it only
ends up protecting people up to the number of successes
on the transit effect.
Spirit Cloak
Tradition Book: Dreamspeakers (First Edition) page 67
Mind 2, Spirit 2
This hides the shaman's aura in the Umbra, causing
them to stand out significantly less to the Umbra's
natives.
Spirit Journey
The Spirit Ways page 88
Spirit 2, Correspondence 2
This rote allows the shaman to enter a deep trance
and sends their perceptions off into the Umbra. They
cannot affect anything, but they can view any location
on Earth or the Umbra and communicate with spirits
they encounter.
Stepping Sideways
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 214
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 218
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 188
Spirit 3
The Mage can now cross through the Gauntlet and
enter the Near Umbra directly.
Storm Watch
Infinite Tapestry page 184
Spirit 1, Prime 1
This rote allows the Mage to see the Avatar Storm in
a general sense. The Mage can then see the density of
shards in places and can chart the safest route through
the storm.
Sucking Gate
Book of Shadows page 141
Spirit 4, Forces 4, Prime 2
Sometimes, a fight really, REALLY requires a change
of venue. For Dreamspeakers, that is often a move into
the Umbra. With this rote, they not only Breach the
Gauntlet, but also cause those near it to be sucked
through. Particularly effective in the age of the Avatar
Storm.
Trailblazing
Movement and Communication 115
Tradition Book: Dreamspeakers (First Edition) page 67
Prime 2, Spirit 2
For one day per success, the Dreamspeaker creates a
trail behind them that they can follow back, and it also
provides countermagickal defenses for the trail to avoid
it being dispelled.
Umbral Visions
Tradition Book: Dreamspeakers (Revised) page 67
Correspondence 2 or 3, Mind 1, Spirit 2
After a lengthy, meditative ritual, the shaman goes
into a deep trance and projects their senses into the
Umbra. They do not enter physically, which keeps them
safe from the Avatar Storm. Not only can they project
their senses to any place that they know
(Correspondence 2) or to any object or person they
know (Correspondence 3), but they can also
communicate with any spirits or other beings there.
Universal Travel
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 42
Dimensional Science 3
This allows a Void Engineer to survive traveling in the
Umbra.
Walking the Open Path
Tradition Book: Dreamspeakers (Revised) page 66
Spirit 2, Prime 1
An enhanced version of Moving the World Walls,
Walking the Open Path decreases the Gauntlet to zero
at a Node, creating a temporary Shallowing and
allowing entrance into the Umbra.
Unusual Environments
Despite most Mages thinking of the Umbra as where
to go for exotic locations, the deep sea and deep space
themselves still exist. These areas are primarily explored
by the Technomagical factions and among them mostly
the Void Engineers. These rotes allow a Mage to survive
travel to the deep ocean or outside the Earth's atmosphere.
Aquatic Survival
Convention Book: Void Engineers (Revised) page 87
Life 1, Matter 4, or Life 3
The Matter version of this Procedure creates an
aquatic suit and air supply, the Life version creates
synthetic gills, reinforces muscles and bones and even
nitrogen-processing to allow for survival in the depths.
The Barrel of Iskander
Artisan's Handbook page 52
Matter 2, Forces 1, optional Life 2
With a barrel made of iron and glass, it becomes
airtight and allows a clear view of its surroundings, no
matter how deep it is submerged underwater. With Life
2, the user will be comfortable in the confined space for
longer.
Format Space
Convention Book: Void Engineers (Revised) page 86
Correspondence 5, Dimensional Science 4
A team of Void Engineers mark the boundaries of an
area that they will use to simulate space, with at least
four reference points at the vertices of a tetrahedron.
The first successes go to making contact with these
points, followed by duration. Afterwards, each success
can be used to raise the Gauntlet for Spirit magic by one
and decrease it for Dimensional Science by one, to a
maximum of 10 and 0, respectively, five successes can
be spent to make all mystic magick vulgar, and all
Technocratic Procedures coincidental, with exceptions
only those that are vulgar everywhere, such as Format
Space, and five successes to force the local physics to
conform to the consensus.
Liftoff
Hidden Lore page 54
Forces 5, Matter 4, Prime 2, optional Dimensional Science 4
This Void Engineer effect can turn any airborne
vehicle into a space worthy vehicle, and with the
addition of Dimensional Science 4, it makes the vehicle
capable of Umbral travel as well.
Nitrogen Narcosis
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 48
Life 3, Matter 2
116 Enlightened Grimoire
By using a decompression suit or chamber, Void
Engineers can avoid the deadly consequences of
nitrogen narcosis, also called The Bends.
VAR
Convention Book: Void Engineers (Revised) page 87
Life 1, Forces 2, Matter 4
Vacuum, Atmosphere and Radiation survival protects
the Void Engineer from hazards of conventional space:
lack of oxygen, radiation, etc.
Unusual Modes
Sometimes, a Mage wants to travel in style. Feet,
boats, airplanes, cars and even teleportation don't quite
do it. These rotes allow Mages to accomplish feats like
travel via lightning bolt, flight by wearing wax wings, or
walking on water.
Body of the Spirit
Book of Crafts page 135
Life 3, Spirit 3
This allows a Wu Lung mage to transform their body
temporarily into ephemera and travel about the physical
world as a spirit.
Daedalus's Wings
Mage: The Sorcerer's Crusade page 270
Forces 2 or Life 3, sometimes combined
The mage constructs elaborate wings out of metal and
canvas, mechanisms to move them through the Mage's
muscle power, and finds a launch point. This effect then
allows the Mage to fly. Often this is combined with Life
3 to strengthen the Mage for the flight, or alternately
done solely with Life to grow wings rather than fly using
a device.
Levitation Walk
Book of Crafts page 134
Spirit 2, Forces 2
This allows the Wu Lung to levitate and move as
quickly as if they were in the Umbra.
Navigation
Order of Reason page 65
Correspondence 1
Originating with the Void Seekers and Celestial
Masters, this rote allows a Mage who is lost to determine
their location from sketchy information. One success
determines location, three or more successes gives
insight into the surrounding geography. Notably,
whatever path is chosen always leads to some kind of
adventure.
Pilot Skyrigger
Order of Reason page 108
Correspondence 5
Allows the user to create and pilot a skyrigger, that is,
a flying ship. This effect is used primarily for actually
piloting the ship and avoiding obstacles.
Rooftop Leap
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 63
Forces 3, Life 3
Through strengthened leg muscles and careful
application of force, the Hollow One is able to leap
from rooftop to rooftop in a city.
Sure Footing
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (First Edition) page 62
Matter 3, Prime 2
Without changing the appearance of Matter, alters it
so that the Mage can walk over it normally.
Thunder Bridge
Dragons of the East page 58
Forces 3, Prime 2, optional Matter 2
The Wu Lung have a unique method of traveling that
most other factions of mages lack: they can ride
lightning. This rote summons a lightning bolt that can
carry the mage from place to place. With Matter, metal
weapons are deflected from the Mage while in transit.
Traffic Pulse
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 64
Entropy 2, Forces 2
This rote gives the Mage significant control over
traffic patterns, allowing them to manipulate traffic
Movement and Communication 117
lights, how heavy traffic is, and even prevent or cause
minor accidents.
Walking on Water
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 197
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 198
Forces 2 or Matter 3
By increasing the molecular cohesion in water, the
Mage can walk along it. With enough successes, others
can follow the path they walk. The Forces version
strengthens the normal force of the water to the same
effect.
Wings of Icarus
Dead Magic page 108
Forces 4
By making a pair of wings out of feathers and wax and
donning them, this rote allows a Mage to fly clumsily.
Strong winds can decrease the difficulty, and extended
rituals are strongly recommended.
118 Enlightened Grimoire
Mystic Perception
An underrated class of rotes, those that enhance perception
are often open to even the weakest and newest
of Mages. These rotes are almost always coincidental,
and although not flashy like other sorts, they can give a
Mage a huge advantage. A Mage armed only with perception
effects is already substantially more powerful
than a Sleeper, able to see perfectly in the dark, to interact
lightly with Spirits, or to process information much
more quickly than others.
This chapter is divided up by the primary sphere of
each effect, with a final section for complex perception
effects that don't have a primary sphere, but instead use
multiple spheres equally.
Correspondence/Data
Calculate Kinematics
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 41
Correspondence 1
This Procedure allows a Void Engineer to determine
how far away an object is as well as its direction of
motion, orientation and speed.
Eagle Eye
Book of Shadows page 138
Correspondence 2, Life 1
An Ahl-i-Batin can view the world from the eyes of a
bird, allowing them to see everything from far above.
Find the Sun
Book of Crafts page 73
Correspondence 1
Navigation at sea is difficult without the sun. This
rote allows them to find any of the major or minor
directions, even at night.
Information Glut
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (First Edition) page 62
Correspondence 2, Mind 1, Time 2
This rote amps up one sense, allowing the Mage to
perceive things they normally couldn't. Each success
gives +1 to Perception for the scene or -1 to Alertness
checks.
Information Overload
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (Revised) page 66
120 Enlightened Grimoire
Correspondence 2, Mind 2
This rote vastly increases the target's perceptive
abilities. If the Reality Coder chooses, it can be an
enlightening experience, making virtual space seem
every bit as real as real space, but it can also cause
significant harm by breaking the normal filters that
allow people to deal with their senses.
Landscape of the Mind
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 185
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 189
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 159
Correspondence 1, optional Mind 1
This allows the Mage to perceive a great area of space,
though trying to process an area larger than a city block
requires Mind.
Lay of the Land
Tradition Book: Verbena (Revised) page 66
Correspondence 2, Life 2
A Verbena can gain information about an area by
communing with the plants and animals in it. One
success establishes the connection, additional successes
increase the range and duration.
Sense Connection
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 158
Correspondence 1
Allows the Mage to determine if an object is being
manipulated remotely or if two Patterns are connected.
Sousveillance
Convention Book: New World Order (Revised) page 84
Data 1, Mind 1, optional other Spheres
Surveillance is watching something from afar, so
sousveillance is watching from within. The Agent can
take in everything at once, though no details that they
couldn't possibly perceive without this Procedure.
Effectively, all Perception rolls automatically succeed.
With other spheres, their senses are enhanced to detect
appropriate things.
Whereami?
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 189
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 159
Correspondence 1
Gives the Mage absolute knowledge of their location,
so long as no one is magically obscuring it.
Entropy
Cynical Eye
Order of Reason page 68
Entropy 1, Matter 1 or Mind 1
A Mage using Cynical Eye can spot the weaknesses in
things. The Mage inspects a person or an object in
detail, revealing a flaw that can be exploited. With Mind
can be used to find character flaws, with Matter can be
used to find structural flaws.
Danse Macabre
Order of Reason page 69
Entropy 1
Originating with the Cosians and the Ksirafai, this
rote is an early forensics effect. Its purpose is to look for
tiny signs in the damage and decay on a corpse to
determine how and when it died, and with enough
successes deduce characteristics of the killer. It's also
useful for examining the undead (although not
Vampires) to gain insight into their existence and into
the necromancers who raise them.
Detect Lie
Order of Reason page 70
Entropy 1
By detecting flaws in the target's statements and
composure, the Mage can tell when someone is lying.
Dim Mak
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 191
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 193
Entropy 1
An Akashic technique for detecting the weak points
in objects and people, similar to Locate Disorder and
Weakness. By hitting them, the Mage gains dice of their
damage roll, one per success.
Idealism
Mystic Perception 121
Order of Reason page 69
Entropy 1
Originating with the High Guild and Explorators, just
as a user of Cynical Eye can detect flaws in things, the
user of Idealism can find encouraging minor events or
good omens, such as birds singing at an opportune
moment. With increasing numbers of successes, the
event can be more directly positive.
Locate Disorder and Weakness
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 192
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 193
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 162
Entropy 1
Basic Entropy senses allow the Mage to find the most
disordered point in a structure, effectively finding the
weakest spot to attack it.
Oathbreaker's Lash
Blood Treachery page 87
Entropy 1, Forces 3
A Quaesitor rote, designed to bring the consequences
of lies down upon liars. By putting the person to be
interrogated into a Seal of Solomon and invoking Uriel,
the Angel of Judgment, the Quaesitor can determine
the truth of what the person interrogated is saying and
bring consequences to them for lies. The person being
interrogated needs to beat this number on
Manipulation + Subterfuge rolls to lie undetectably. If a
lie is detected, the difference creates the dice pool for an
electrical attack via Forces on the interrogated.
Optionally, this rote may only cause pain, and not any
actual damage. In this case, the damage rolled only gives
wound penalties, but disappears at the end of the scene.
Organize
Technocracy: Iteration X page 47
Entropy 1
By detecting weaknesses in their plans, this procedure
allows an Iterator to improve them, minimizing those
weak points.
Ring of Truth
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 193
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 162
122 Enlightened Grimoire
Entropy 1
By paying attention to the strands of Fate, the Mage
can detect lies.
See the Soul's Burn
Tradition Book: Euthanatos (First Edition) page 66
Entropy 2, Mind 1, Spirit 1
Though not able to see the details, this rote allows a
Euthanatos to see whether the target is guilty, in general
terms.
Sense Corruption
Book of Shadows page 139
Entropy 1, Spirit 1
Developed by a Chorister who allied with Werewolves
against a common threat, this allows the Mage to sense
the taint and corruption of the Wyrm in the Umbra or
a spirit.
Forces
Audio Tap
Technocracy: Iteration X page 47
Forces 1
Iteration X field agents often need to hear things
being whispered or spoke from far away or over
electronic communications media. With this
procedure, they can pick up transmissions all along the
electromagnetic spectrum, including phone calls, the
audio from television broadcasts, etc.
Current Metering
Guide to the Technocracy page 209
Forces 1
The Technocrat has access to substantial
infrastructure. This access allows them to determine
how much energy is being used in an area.
Darksight
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 195
Mystic Perception 123
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 198
Order of Reason page 70 (as Dark-Adapted Eye)
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 166
Forces 1
This rote allows the Mage to shift their vision to
different parts of the electromagnetic spectrum, giving
them the ability to see things they couldn't normally and
in situations where there is no visible light.
Ear of Dionysus
Order of Reason page 72
Forces 1
Developed by the Ksirafai (and independently by the
Craftmasons), this rote enhances the Mage's hearing to
the point where they can discern the faintest auditory
cues. Among the more impressive applications are
determining someone's weight from the sound of their
footfalls, what items they have on them from the sound
of their motion, or what the relationship between two
people is based on the undertones of their conversation.
Quantify Energy
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 195
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 198
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 166
Forces 1
Allows the Mage to sense how much energy and of
what kinds are in the area.
Tune Psychic Radio
Book of Shadows page 140
Forces 2, Mind 1
The Mage who uses this rote can listen in on any radio
frequency they desire, without a receiver. This allows
them to overhear secret communication quite easily,
often helpful in tense situation.
Life
Alarm System
Initiates of the Art page 81
Life 1, Correspondence 1
The Mage can sense if there are any life forms around
them.
Gene Scan
Technocracy: Progenitors page 42
Life 1
This Procedure scans (and stores) the genetic code of
an individual.
Genetics Scan
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 198
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 201
Life 1
Scans the area for life forms. This can filter by species,
to avoid being overwhelmed by ants, gnats and
mosquitos.
Genome Mapping
Convention Book: New World Order (Revised) page 85
Data 3, Life 2
With just a DNA sample, a New World Order agent
can establish a Data connection to the person whose
sample it is. Each success adds a level of separation from
the DNA to the subject where it will still work, for
example, three successes are needed if the sample comes
from the target's great-grandfather.
Life Scan
Technocracy: Progenitors page 40 (as Life Sense)
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 170
Life 1
A Life Scan will determine what living things are in
the area.
Life Sense
Technocracy: Progenitors page 43
Life 1
By reading a Pattern and analyzing the biochemistry,
a Pharmacopeist can identify the basic facts about a
target.
Pattern Store
Technocracy: Progenitors page 41
Life 1
124 Enlightened Grimoire
This Procedure allows the Progenitor to memorize
and record the Pattern of a life form.
Scan Life Signs
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 43
Life 1
Determines the presence of life forms, identifies
them, and detects any magickal or technological effects
that enhance or weaken it.
Sequencing
Guide to the Technocracy page 206
Correspondence 3, Life 3
Using a combination of body heat tracking,
surveillance satellites and sonic sensors, a Technocrat
can keep track of all lifeforms around them.
Commonly, the sensors to do this are built into a
surveillance vehicle and the information is related to a
team via Coordination.
Matter
Assess Affinity
Artisan's Handbook page 47
Matter 1, Prime 1
A Hermetic takes an object into a circle for assessment
and performs a dedication ritual. With success, the
Mage gains information about the object's affinities,
such as elements, astrological signs, what properties it
should be assigned in complex rituals, etc.
Fragments of Dream
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 202
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 206
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 173
Matter 1
This rote allows the Mage to see hidden things,
including what's in a sealed room, a box, or hidden
levers and switches.
Hidden Switch
Order of Reason page 74
Matter 1
This rote helps the Mage find hidden switches, secret
doors, or other features.
Holes in the Desert
Fallen Tower: Las Vegas pas 120
Matter 1
With this rote, a Mage can detect if something is
"different" underneath a desert's sand. Successes reduce
the difficulty of a roll to determine what it is that has
been found, which could be anything from a buried
body to a hidden source of water, if there is anything to
find.
Instant Measurement
Hidden Lore page 18
Correspondence 1, Matter 1, Mind 1
This popular Etherite rote allows the user to find
hidden spaces, and, especially, to find any that have
someone hiding in them.
Monarch's Friend
The Swashbuckler's Handbook page 92
Matter 1 optional Forces 3, Prime 2
This rote detects poisoned food and drink. With
Forces 3/Prime 2, it also makes it glow for all to see.
Mind
Aai-ab, "Washing the Heart"
Book of Crafts page 57
Mind 2, Spirit 1
By holding a feather (representing Ma'at), a Hem-Ka
Sobk traces the scars over their heart and then can see a
symbolic manifestation of their target based on their
spiritual nature and thoughts. This is a combination of
aura reading and reading surface thoughts.
Cram Session
Guide to the Technocracy page 216
Mystic Perception 125
Time 3, Mind 1
A Technocrat that needs to find something out can
conduct a Cram Session. Doing so divides the time
needed to find the information by the number of
successes.
Deduction
Hidden Lore page 18
Life 1, Mind 1
The Mage picks up subtle signals about a person and
integrates them together to determine if they are a
threat or not. This gives a difficulty reduction of one per
success on the next Mental, Intuition or Enigma roll
regarding that person.
Find the Guilty
Dead Magic page 27
Mind 2
A Priest organizes a group to perform a ritual dance
to try to root out anyone who bore ill-will towards the
recently deceased.
Followme
Initiates of the Art page 81
Correspondence 1, Mind 2
The Mage helps their friends find them despite having
Arcane.
I Know Your Cousin
Fallen Tower: Las Vegas pas 120
Mind 2, Correspondence 3, Life 1
This rote allows a Mage to determine basic facts about
the nearest relative of the target. At three successes spent
on strength of the effect, the Mage gets a familiar name,
and each success beyond that gives a minor fact.
Ishin Den Shin
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (Revised) page 77
Correspondence 2, Mind 2
Allows the Akashic to sense the emotions and mental
state of those affected.
Lip Reading
Order of Reason page 91
Mind 3, Entropy 2, optional Time 2
126 Enlightened Grimoire
Even as early as the Renaissance, lip-reading was in
common use by the Ksirafai and other spy
organizations. When trying to determine the target's
plans, the spy watches them carefully, hoping to catch a
glimpse of them muttering to themselves, speaking idly
to something symbolic of an ancestor or absent friend,
etc. With Time added in, the user is more likely to
happen to find them at a time when they are doing so.
Mind Empowerment
Technocracy: Progenitors page 42 (as Empower Self)
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 176
Mind 1
The Mage can sense the surface emotions of others.
Other uses of this effect are to increase Mental
Attributes temporarily, to see auras, to process more
information than usual, and many other effects.
Mindfulness of Wrong Thought
Hidden Lore page 13
Mind 2, Life 1 or Matter 1
While meditating, this rote protects the Akashic. It
gives them the ability to detect a hostile being in the
vicinity. With Matter instead of Life, it can detect traps
near the meditating Akashic.
No-Mind
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 206
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 209
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 176
Mind 1
The Mage senses the minds in their general vicinity.
Pathos
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 205
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 210
Mind 1
A very slight variant on Read the Soul which allows
the Mage to see auras, it gives more information about
emotional states and less about states of being.
Positive Thinking
Initiates of the Art page 81
Mind 1
Through meditation, the Mage can gain insight into
something that they have been mulling over.
Psychological Breaking Point
Technocracy: New World Order page 48
Mind 2, Entropy 1
This Procedure uses a combination of access to
psychological profiles and interaction to allow an Ivory
Tower Agent to suss out the psychological weaknesses
of the target, whether they be phobias, addictions,
fetishes, or worse.
Read the Soul
Mage: The Sorcerer's Crusade page 269
Mind 1 or Spirit 1
This rote gives the Mage the ability to read auras.
Right-Click
Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition page 602
Mind 3, Data 3, and often others
Creates a heads-up display for the Technocrat,
scanning people's surface thoughts (with Mind) and
computers (with Data) to give the Agent basic
information about whatever they are looking at. Other
spheres can add more information to this display.
True Form
Tradition Book: Cult of Ecstasy (Revised) page 70
Mind 1, Entropy 1, Spirit 1, optional Life 1
This rote gives a Cultist who is using a hallucinogen
the ability to perceive what lies underneath
appearances. Usually this has something to do with the
target's Nature. With Life, information about the health
and physical state of the target is also gained.
Prime/Primal Utility
Detect Reality Deviation Technocracy: New World Order page 48 (as Detect Reality
Deviant)
Mystic Perception 127
Convention Book: New World Order (Revised) page 87
Prime 1, Dimensional Science 2 or Life 2
This allows the Agent to detect and identify Reality
Deviants, with different non-human groups requiring
different techniques to discover. For example, Life 2 will
allow the detection of Vampires, but, for unknown
reasons, Dimensional Science is needed to identify
Werewolves.
Dialectic
Order of Reason page 80
Prime 1, optional Mind 1, optional Entropy 1
The Mage converses with the target, and gains insight
into whether the target has magickal or supernatural
powers. With Mind 1 it allows some insight to be gained
into the target's aura, and with Entropy 1 lies can be
detected.
Find Reality Flaws
Tradition Book: Sons of Ether (First Edition) page 63
Prime 1, Entropy 1
This rote allows an Etherite to determine if an object
of phenomenon is a result of Paradox, rather than being
naturally occurring.
Hallmark
Book of Shadows page 145
Mind 2, Prime 1
By examining a magickal working, the Mage can
detect the mystical fingerprint of the Mage who
performed it. This allows the Mage to identify those
fingerprints, though to know which Mage it is from,
they need to already know the identity that goes with
them.
Inquisitor
Order of Reason page 80
Prime 1, optional Mind 1, optional Entropy 1
Identical to Dialectic, except that the interaction is an
interrogation, rather than a discussion.
Lore Rune
Dead Magic 2 page 100
Correspondence 1, Life 1, Matter 1, Mind 1, Prime 1, Spirit 1
This rune grants the ability to identify any
supernatural in their vicinity. One success allows them
to tell that that someone is not human, more are
required to tell them apart, and with large numbers
their basic powers can be discerned.
Patterns of the Long Count
Dead Magic page 78
Prime 1, Spirit 1
By reading the Long Count of the Mayan calendar,
understanding the patterns in it, the Mage can lower the
difficulty of effects involving one Sphere by one. This
only applies to Mages who believe in the Long Count.
Spot the Man
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 63
Correspondence 1, Life 1, Matter 1, Prime 1
When successful, the Hollow One will be able to
detect any Technomagickal implants or Primium in the
target to be viewed.
Spirit/Dimensional Science
Hersh, "To be Patient"
Book of Crafts page 56
Correspondence 1, Mind 1, Spirit 1
The Hem-Ka Sobk enters a meditative trance clearing
away doubt and hesitation to reach an emotionless,
calm place. This sharpens senses and allows them to feel
the Sekhem of Sobk flow through them, and they
become one with the crocodile. Without this rote, they
are denied access to many of their powers.
Mirrorshades
Guide to the Technocracy page 207
Dimensional Science 1
Allows the Technocrat to see Extra Dimensional
Entities by looking around an area with specially
polarized sunglasses.
See no Evil
Order of Reason page 84
Spirit 1
128 Enlightened Grimoire
This rote allows the Mage to see things that have
footprints in the Umbra: ghosts, spirits, the Gnosis of a
Werewolf, a faerie's Glamour and the like.
Spirit Sight
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 214
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 217
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 187
Spirit 1
Spirit Sight allows the Mage to see what is on the
other side of the Gauntlet without being able to affect
it directly.
Utchatti, "The Two Divine Eyes"
Book of Crafts page 56
Correspondence 1, Spirit 1
By touching scar patterns around their eyes with wet
fingers, the Hem-Ka Sobk can sense objects near them
that have been touched by Sekhem.
Time
Cram
Order of Reason page 91
Time 3, Mind 1
With access to a proper library, the Mage can become
an expert in any topic contained within the library in a
hurry. For each success, the Mage gains a temporary dot
for a Knowledge trait relevant to the question being
studied (to a maximum of five). This dot disappears at
the end of a day.
Download Specialization
Technocracy: New World Order page 48
Time 3
The Agent can become temporarily an instant expert
in some subject area. Each success spent on potency
gives one level of Hypercram for the duration.
Evaluate Fourth Dimensional Fabric
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 46
Time 1
This allows a Void Engineer to determine if time has
been tampered with.
Internal Clock
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 218
Technocracy: Iteration X page 48 (as Rigid Schedule)
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 223
Time 1
This effect gives the Mage a perfect internal clock. The
only way for them to lose track of the time is to have it
or their perceptions of it be altered magickally.
Perfect Time
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 191
Time 1
The Mage can perfectly determine when they are.
Perfect Timing
Order of Reason page 85
Time 1
This rote allows the Mage to not only know exactly
what time of day it is, but also to coordinate activities
precisely with others and to intuitively show up at just
the right moment during a crisis.
Sense the Fleeting Moment
Tradition Book: Verbena (First Edition) page 63
Time 1
The Verbena who uses this rote will know exactly the
correct moment to act for maximum effectiveness. This
decreases the difficulty of a specified mundane task by 1
per success, once.
Time Sense
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 217
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 223
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 192
Time 1
A Mage with even basic knowledge of the Time sphere
can determine if Time has been manipulated in an area.
Complex
The Gutter View
Orphan's Survival Guide page 123
Any sphere at 1
At the bottom, people live by their wits and their
senses. Every sphere grants useful perception effects that
help with survival, such as:
Correspondence sensing the general area
Entropy spot weak points
Forces see in the dark, improved
hearing
Life sense living things
Matter spot weak points, hidden
structures
Mind read emotions, read auras
Spirit read auras, see ghosts and
spirits
Time perfect internal clock
Kohl Sight
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page 87
Correspondence 1 or Entropy 1 or Spirit 1
By using kohl (a thick, black powder) around their
eyes, the Taftani can see things they normally couldn't.
This allows them to see into the distance without
interference from storms, glare or any other optical
effects. The Entropy version instead allows them to see
their target's destiny, though in vague terms. With
Spirit, they can see into the Invisible World.
Mark of the Beast
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 226
Prime 3, Correspondence 3, Life 1
This rote marks the blood in a human with
Quintessence so that it can be tracked. This lets a Mage
find the person, and any Vampire who drinks their
blood.
No-Doz
Initiates of the Art page 81
Any Sphere 1
By expanding their senses, the Mage briefly overloads
themselves and wakes up.
Smart Drink
Book of Crafts page 41
Mind 2, Life 2, Prime 1, Spirit 1, Time 1
Also called the Elixir of Enlightenment by the
Children of Knowledge, Smart Drink allows a Sleeper
to see the world how it really is, according to them. A
Cultists have a similar effect that works through drugs,
rather than a drink. The subject gets an energizing boost
from Life, the ability to see magick and spirits through
Prime and Spirit, Mind opens them up to these new
perceptions, and Time lets them perceive the
imperfections in the flow of time.
130 Enlightened Grimoire
Necromancy
Originally, the word Necromancy referred specifically
to summoning the ghosts of the dead to ask them questions
about the future, a form a divination. Now, it refers
to any magic that has to do with death and the undead.
This chapter is divided into the rotes that involve a
ghost's Fetters, those that directly deal with Ghosts and
the Shadowlands, those involving Rebirth whether as
natural human beings or other things and finally those
involving using the dead as Servants.
Fetters
Every Wraith is bound to the world by some collection
of objects and people important to them in life.
These rotes can create new objects that bind the Wraith
to the world of the living or can manipulate the Wraith
via such a connection.
Blood from a Stone
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 65
Life 3, Mind 4, Spirit 4
The Hollow One needs to first create a Fetter Ball
connected to a Wraith that they know, and then pierces
it with a needle. This causes the Wraith's Angst to turn
to blood and drip out of the ball, leaving the Wraith
much calmer after, despite it often objecting in advance
to the ritual.
Coffin for a Fisher
Dead Magic page 26
Spirit 3, Matter 2
By building a coffin in the shape of something related
to the subject's job, the Mage can send the
accoutrements of the job to the afterlife with them as
relics.
Danse Macabre
World of Darkness: Outcasts page 91
Spirit 4, Correspondence 3, Matter 3, optional Prime 3
The Hollow One can summon a Wraith by using an
item that belonged to them in life, creating a temporary
one-point fetter for the Wraith. With Prime 3 and
expending Quintessence, the fetter becomes
permanent.
Fetter Ball
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 65
132 Enlightened Grimoire
Prime 2, Spirit 4
This creates a one-point fetter for a Wraith, in the
possession of the Hollow One. The Wraith must
participate willingly and sign a pact with the Mage. The
contract is the crumpled into a ball and encased in wax.
The Wraith cannot affect the wax ball, and it becomes
a very effective focus for necromantic magic targeting
the Wraith.
Voice Across the Void
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 66
Correspondence 2, Mind 3, Spirit 3
A Hollow One who has a Fetter Ball for a Wraith can
use this rote to communicate with them no matter
where they are. Even one success creates two-way
communication regardless of distance.
Voice of the Jade Ancestors
Book of Crafts page 134
Mind 2, Spirit 2
Given an item of value to the deceased (a Fetter, in
Wraith: The Oblivion terms), a member of the Wu
Lung can summon them (if they are available) for
advice.
Ghosts and the
Shadowlands
These rotes deal directly with ghosts and the Shadowlands
that they inhabit. They allow the Mage to perceive
the land of the dead as the Wraiths do, and even to inflict
the greatest punishment possible on a Wraith: Soul-
Forging.
Ghost-Burning
Artisan's Handbook page 52
Spirit 2, Forces 2
This rote allows the Mage to direct a light-based attack
across the gauntlet, at a spirit or a ghost.
Shadow Sight
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 66
Correspondence 1, Entropy 1, Mind 1, Spirit 1
This allows Hollow One necromancers to not only see
ghosts, but to see the Shadowlands how the Wraiths see
Necromancy 133
it: morbid black-and-white, the weak points of
everything completely obvious, the auras of living things
giving away that they are, in fact, alive. By focusing on
an individual Wraith, the Hollow One can even see its
Shadow.
Shelter from the Storm
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 66
Entropy 1, Prime 4, Spirit 4
This rote allows the Mage to turn a room or building
into a Haunt (one level per success) and must last for at
least a scene. This provides many benefits, but most
notably it protects from the Maelstrom.
Soothe the Dead
Dead Magic page 30
Spirit 3
Using a voice disguising tube or other technique to
make his voice audible to both living and dead, the
Mage soothes the ghosts, pushing the Wraiths into
Slumber so that they do not cause problems for the
living.
Soul-Forging
Infernalism: The Path of Screams page 87
Spirit 4 or 5, Matter 3, Prime 3, plus a Forces 3, Spirit 3 and Prime
2 effect to assist
For more detail, see pages 87-89 of Infernalism: The
Path of Screams
With this effect, the Infernalist can force a Device or
a Talisman tainted with corrupt ephemera. Legend has
it that this technique was learned from the soulsmiths
of Stygia (for more detail, see Wraith: The Oblivion),
and is exceedingly unpleasant for any spirit used in such
a way, even those that are used to pain.
134 Enlightened Grimoire
The forging merges matter and spirit into a new
material, destroying the spirit's original form but not
quite destroying its consciousness, so that it experiences
its time as part of the object forged. This technique,
despite its name, can be used to make materials that are
not metals, such as thread for tapestries.
The resulting finished object will be both a
Device/Wonder/Talisman and a Fetish, with a regular
spirit used with Spirit 4, but the soul of a living being
can be stolen and used with Spirit 5.
Rebirth
Reincarnation of the avatar is a fundamental principle
in the World of Darkness. However, other sorts of
rebirth are also possible. These rotes allow a Mage to
bring the dead back in some sense. Among these is one
of the most infamous rotes in the entire line: Lichedom,
which turns the Mage into an undead monstrosity.
Atitsiak
Dead Magic page 130
Life 4, Spirit 3
Traditionally, Inuit children are named for the most
recently deceased member of the community and were
thought to gain some characteristics inherited from that
individual. This rite allows the Mage to briefly adopt the
name of a dead person and take on some of their
characteristics.
Kispu
Dead Magic page 57
Entropy 3, Correspondence 3
Inspired by a Babylonian ritual to ease the transition
of a soul to the afterlife, modern Euthanatos sacrifice an
animal, recite the names of gods of the dead, and, in
doing so, can prevent a person from becoming a Wraith.
Lichedom
Dead Magic page 109
Entropy 4, Life 4, Matter 4, Spirit 4, Prime 3, Mind 1
Lichedom is, in some sense, the easy route to immortality.
It is the only route that doesn't require a Master,
for instance. However, it is forbidden in the strongest
terms, and virtually all Mages will unite to destroy a Liche
if one is found.
The Mage surrounds themselves with the trappings of
their life and their magic, and ritually severs the connection
between their avatar and their body. To finish the
ritual, the Mage kills himself while invoking the final
piece of magic, binding their avatar back to their own
body right as they reach the point between life and
death, freezing themselves there. As such, the Liche becomes
a sort of undead, hovering on the edge of death
but not crossing over.
This is, overall, an extremely complex rite with many
requirements, almost every single one of which is criminal
in the eyes of most Mages. For every detail, see Dead
Magic pages 109 - 112.
Song of Orpheus
Book of Shadows page 147
Life 4 or 5, Matter 2, Prime 2, Time 2, Spirit 5
This rote restores the dead to life. But it isn't that
simple. The Pattern spheres and Prime are needed to
restore the body, and Time is needed to make sure it is
correct, viewing the precise Pattern in the past. Spirit is
needed to call the soul/avatar back. Of course, this
assumes that it is free to return. In most cases, both the
soul and the avatar must be found first, and often the
soul has moved on and the avatar has been reborn.
This rote should never be used as an easy ‘get out of
death free' card, but instead should always require
multiple sessions, often multiple stories, of work to
prepare.
Walk to Too'ga
Dead Magic page 30
Spirit 3
By cutting off their small finger, taking two lethal
damage, the Mage can protect themselves in their death.
When they die, this prevents them from becoming a
ghost, and ensures that they move on to whatever
afterlife there may be.
Servants
Necromancy 135
Some Mage create bonds between themselves as the
dead, other command their bodies or spirits to do their
bidding directly. Though most Mages would never do
this, many necromancers end up with undead servants
of one sort of another, and it varies from Mage to Mage
whether they are viewed as objects or family.
Eternal Discipline of the Family
Dragons of the East page 67
Spirit 4, Prime 4, Mind 2, Entropy 2
Joins a Wu-Keng to a Wraith as parent or spouse. The
Mage enacts the ritual as though adopting, being
adopted by, or marrying a living human, but with their
altar burning candles, red-ink charms, and gold and
silver paper to symbolize the Wraith. This turns the
Mage into a Fetter for a Wraith, though the Wraith
must be willing, essentially serving their proper part in
the ceremony.
Ghost Rune
Dead Magic 2 page 99
Entropy 1, Spirit 2, optional Correspondence 2, optional Time 2
The Mage may use this rune to summon the spirit of
a volva, a woman gifted with prophecy, and ask her
questions about the Wyrd. If the ghost is skilled with
the arcanos of Fatalism, then Entropy and Spirit suffice,
otherwise the ghost merely channels the Mage's own
Correspondence and Time to read the Wyrd.
Hear and Obey
Book of Crafts page 26
Life 4, Spirit 5 or Mind 4
This is one of most infamous techniques available to
the Bata'a: the creation of the zombi. With Spirit, it
traps the soul while killing and reviving the body,
creating an animate servant with no passion or emotion,
even if they are somehow restored to life and have the
damage to their soul repaired. The Mind version traps
the victim's mind in their own corpse as it decays and
moves it around like a puppet while they are forced to
watch. This version is usually used as a punishment for
treachery.
The Key of Vanth
Dead Magic 2 page 144
Forces 2, Matter 2, Prime 2
By mimicking the key owned by an Etruscan demon
with power over the dead, the Mage can animate corpses
to do their bidding.
Reanimation
Tradition Book: Euthanatos (Revised) page 66
Spirit 2 or Forces 2, Matter 2, Prime 2
Either by summoning a spirit or directly manipulating
it with Forces, the Mage can cause a corpse to become
mobile, creating an animate skeleton or body,
depending on the state of the remains.
Summon Volva
Dead Magic 2 page 103
Entropy 1, Spirit 2, optional Correspondence 2, optional Time 2
This rote is identical to the Ghost Rune.
136 Enlightened Grimoire
Obfuscation
Mages often have a need to hide things. Obfuscation
magick is the sort that allows a Mage to hide in a crowd,
to cause something to disappear or to become invisible.
Some Mages take it farther and mimic the background
Arcane with these magicks, potentially to terrible consequences.
This chapter is divided into rotes for Blending In, for
Disappearing the Mage or information, for going Unnoticed
or even for going Unseen.
Blending In
Often a Mage doesn't need to disappear entirely.
What they need to interact with people without them
knowing who they are. Sometimes it's because the Mage
needs to stay covert to succeed at their goals, other times
it's simply for safety. In any case, these rotes allow the
Mage to hide their identity or their selves.
Field of Yin
Book of Crafts page 120
Entropy 5, Life 1;
Life 3
A male Wu-Keng can disguise himself as a woman
perfectly, either by destroying the idea that they are male
so that others cannot perceive them as male or else by
transforming themselves.
Goanna's Hiding
Dead Magic 2 page 64
Matter 2
The Mage's clothing takes on an appearance like the
surrounding area, making it easier for the Mage to hide.
This rote decreases the difficulty of Dexterity + Stealth
rolls.
Mindscreen
Hidden Lore page 48
Mind 1
A Nephandic trick, this rote allows them to disguise
their thoughts. They cannot pass as a Sleeper but can
hide their malevolent intent.
Passing
Orphan's Survival Guide page 128
Life 3
138 Enlightened Grimoire
Sometimes, certain people are not safe. Whether
you're the wrong race, sex or otherwise, this rote allows
the Mage to change their features to match whatever it
is they need to be to be safe.
Disappearing
Information often needs to disappear. This is a common
attitude in the Technocracy, but the Traditions
also feel this way about specific things. These rotes allow
the Mage to hide information from various sorts.
This information can be in computers or in the Mage's
own head, or even a physical area.
Downvote
Convention Book: Syndicate (Revised) page 73
Correspondence 3, Entropy 3
This Procedure seeks out specific information and
uses the appropriate techniques to decrease its ranking
in search engines. Most Syndicate agents prefer this over
censorship, which tends to draw civil liberties lawyers
and conspiracy theorists and ends up with more
attention to the information being hidden. Each success
on this Effect gives the information a dot of Arcane,
obscuring the data everywhere it exists.
Encrypt Thoughts
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (First Edition) page 61
Mind 1, Life 1, Prime 2
By running their thoughts through an encryption
algorithm, the Virtual Adept makes them harder to
read. Each success subtracts from any outside party's
attempts to read the Adept's mind, beyond
countermagick.
Move Along
Technocracy: New World Order page 45
Mind 2
By stationing Agents at the perimeter of an are they
want quarantined, the New World Order can make
people prefer to just "move along" rather than risk any
trouble.
Secure the Scene
Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition page 604
Mind 2 or 3, Forces 1, Matter 1, optional Forces 3
Obfuscation 139
Technocrats need to score at least three successes to
Secure a Scene, and more successes are needed the
larger the area to secure is.
Mind discourages anyone from entering the area
(avoidance with 2, driving them away with 3), while
Forces and Matter are used to catalog the evidence that
needs to be cleaned up. Forces 3 can be added to create
a blackout effect rendering the area dark, to avoid
anyone seeing the cleanup process.
Shield
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 210
Mind 1
Creates a mental shield which defends against Mind
magick.
Soul Cloak
Infernalism: The Path of Screams page 87
Spirit 3, Entropy 2, Mind 2, Prime 2
An essential tool for any Mage who needs to mask
their aura, it is rarely found outside of Infernalists and
the Fallen. This effect confuses the aura perceptions of
others, hiding the hues that reveal the evil of the Mage
behind kindly shimmering hues.
Unnoticed
It is relatively easy for a Mage to ensure that they are
seen, but not really noticed by the people around them.
Many of these effects mimic the Arcane background,
though Ghayba, the Occultation of the Ahl-i-Batin can
raise Arcane itself.
At Ease
Guide to the Traditions page 280
Mind 2
With this rote, the Tradition Mage seems like a
harmless eccentric, causing others to fear them less and
mitigating any unsettling effects of their Resonance.
Dontcme
Initiates of the Art page 81
Correspondence 1, Entropy 2
The Mage can bend space and probability around
them, granting them temporary levels of Arcane.
Ghayba (Occultation or "Unbeingness")
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page 43
Correspondence 4, Mind 2, Prime 4 or 5, Spirit 3
This not only allows the Batini to gain temporary
Occult, but to make it permanent and increase Occult
beyond 5 (see Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page
39 for details). Each dot of Arcane costs two successes,
and each success spent lasts for one lunar year
(approximately 336 days). Furthermore, if the Mage
accidentally reaches Arcane 11, they disappear, the
Tellurian itself forgetting that they exist.
Non-Descript
Guide to the Technocracy page 214
Mind 2
Makes the Agent not stand out and generally seem
unimportant to observers. This acts as the Cloaking
background for the duration.
Pass for Normal
Hidden Lore page 18
Mind 2, Prime 2
This effect adds a dot each to Wits, Expression and
Etiquette, as well as suppressing the worst responses to
the general weirdness that many Mages carry with them.
Selective Edit
Guide to the Technocracy page 206
Correspondence 2, Entropy 2
This Procedure gives an operative a temporary
Cloaking background, hiding them effectively from
electronic surveillance, causing them to not appear in
video feeds, etc.
Sjonhverfing ("Deceiving of the Sight")
Dead Magic 2 page 103
Mind 2 or 4;
Entropy 5;
Forces 2
140 Enlightened Grimoire
With this magic, the Mage can cloud the minds of
men. The most basic version allows the Mage to strike
fear into all those in their presence. A more advanced
version allows them to instill illusions into those minds,
making them see what the Mage wishes them to. With
Entropy, they can destroy the target's sense of up and
down, or even summon a mist.
This is dispelled if the Mage is blindfolded.
Well, It Is Vegas
Fallen Tower: Las Vegas pas 121
Mind 3
In a place like Las Vegas, where strange sights have
become commonplace, this rote allows the mage to take
on temporary Arcane.
Unseen
These rotes make the Mage more difficult or impossible
to perceive in some way. Most of them have to do
with invisibility or hiding in shadows, but not exclusively
so.
Antinoise
Technocracy: Iteration X page 48
Forces 2
Creates a sonic dampening field around the agent,
inverting and silencing all audio signals the enter the
affected area.
Being Invisible
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 61
Forces 3, Mind 3
So long as the Hollow One stays still, this rote hides
them in the shadows and causes people to look the
other way, rendering them effectively invisible.
Cloak of Shadows
Order of Reason page 69
Entropy 2
An old Ksirafai trick, the Cloak of Shadows warps
chance and detects weaknesses to help with stealth. By
taking some time to scout the area where the Mage
wants to be sneaky, this rote helps to detect the best
places to hide and to avoid passing unnoticed. As such,
this rote provides a difficulty decrease on a stealth roll.
Dark Streets
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 62
Entropy 2, Forces 2
The Mage causes streetlight to flicker and dim,
shadows to grow longer, etc., so that the Mage has the
cover of darkness to hide them or keep their features
ambiguous.
Dreamer's Shroud from Day
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 186
Correspondence 4
This rote allows the Mage to warp space around them
so that they are hidden from sight, making them
effectively invisible.
Energy Shield
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 166
Forces 2
Allows the Mage to block out a specific type of energy,
allowing the Mage to render something invisible,
inaudible, immune to electricity, etc.
Huli Shjalmr ("Helmet of Hiding")
Dead Magic 2 page 103
Prime 2 or 3, Forces 2 or Mind 4 or Entropy 5
The Huli Shjalmr grants the power of invisibility, by
either warping light around them, hiding themselves
from the Minds of those around them, or destroying the
very concept of them in those minds.
Return to Darkness
Hidden Lore page 16
Entropy 2, Forces 2 or 3
By causing whatever is necessary to fail, this rote
extinguishes all nearby light sources, plunging the area
into darkness. Forces 3 is necessary for a larger area or
brighter light sources.
Shadow Project
Orphan's Survival Guide page 126
Obfuscation 141
Forces 2
This effect pushes away light, drawing shadows
around the Mage and hiding them from sight.
Shinobijutsu
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (Revised) page 69
Correspondence 3 or Entropy 5 or Forces 3 or Mind 3
The variants on this rote are different ways for an
Akashic to become unseen. With Correspondence, the
Akashic folds space so that light passes around them,
with Forces they can create a more traditional illusion
of invisibility, with Mind they can alter the perceptions
of others directly to not see them, and with Entropy they
can destroy the very idea of the Mage's presence.
The Silent Circle
The Swashbuckler's Handbook page 93
Forces 2
Creates an area where sound and light are dampened,
though not entirely removed.
Smoke Screen
World of Darkness: Outcasts page 91
Mind 3, Matter 2
Using a cigarette, the Hollow One releases a powerful
hallucinogen into the air. Targets can resist the effects
with a Willpower roll. Successes determine how long
the cloud lasts (in hours) and how wild the
hallucinations are.
Smoke-bomb Trick
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (First Edition) page 63
Matter 2, Prime 2
Fills the area with a thick black smoke that blocks
vision and irritates eyes. The smoke remains effective for
one round per success.
Sulfurous Darkness
Artisan's Handbook page 51
Forces 2, Matter 1, optional Life 2 and Entropy 2
With a flame and some chemicals, the Mage can
create a flash and fill a space (size depending on
successes) with black, unpleasant smoke. If Life and
Entropy are added, everyone within the area must roll
Stamina at difficulty 8 or else spend two rounds choking
and gagging.
Summon Fog
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 63
Matter 3
Conjures up a fog, which can provide cover, make
Perception rolls more difficult, or other effects
determined by the Storyteller.
Veil of Invisibility
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 223
Forces 2, Life 3
The Mage alters their body to the point where it no
longer interacts with light. Though one success might
just render them blurry, three or more grant complete
invisibility.
142 Enlightened Grimoire
Space-Time
Management
For some Mages, Space and Time themselves can be
treated merely as suggestions. These powers let them do
some of the most fantastical of feats from fiction and
mythology, if they can survive the paradox. This, of
course, is why Mages rarely Time Travel.
This chapter is divided into rotes that gives
Knowledge of space and time, those that allow the
Mage to see or interact with Many Places simultaneously,
the powerful rotes that manage Time Manipulation
and finally those that Warp Space itself.
Knowledge
Space and Time are the playground that Reality sits
inside. But they're also aspects of it. A Mage who uses
these rotes can gain great knowledge about space and
time, including when the right moment to do something
is, how much time has passed, where they've been
or even how two things are connected to one another.
Ariadne's Thread
Book of Shadows page 144
Mind 1, Correspondence 1
The Mage who uses this rote is always capable of
backtracking. This gives them a perfect recollection of
the actual locations in space that they have passed
through. Regardless if every landmark along the way
changes, they will be able to find their way back.
Chain
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 189
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 159
Correspondence 3
Chain allows a Mage to strengthen or weaken the
connections between objects.
Perfect Fuse
Artisan's Handbook page 51
Forces 2, Time 1
Allows the Mage to set a fuse for the appropriate
amount of time for their purposes, whatever they may
be.
Smoker's Timing
Guide to the Traditions page 280
Time 2
144 Enlightened Grimoire
It's a well-known urban legend that if a smoker is
waiting for something, it will happen the moment they
start a cigarette. Taking advantage of that, a Tradition
Mage can predict when something will happen by
timing it with their cigarette. A single success causes
them to have taken a single drag on the cigarette before
things happen, while four or more successes might cause
it to happen just when they finish a cigarette.
Synchronize Watches
Technocracy: New World Order page 48
Time 1
This procedure coordinates the timing of an
operation, allowing each member of an amalgam to
agree on what time it is, precisely.
Many Places
Busy Mages often find that they need to be in multiple
places at once. These rotes allow them to do that. Even
more, the most powerful of them allow the Mage to
make many places into a single place.
Co-Location
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 188
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 191
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 160
Correspondence 5
A Master of Correspondence can cause two distinct
locations to overlap and interact directly. No damage is
caused by superimposition, but once separated two
objects cannot be superimposed again.
Conference Call
Technocracy: Syndicate page 49
Correspondence 4, Forces 4, Prime 2
Using a specially arrange conference room that
includes hard-light projectors, high-speed internet
connections and proper computers, a Syndicate agent
can be in multiple meetings at once.
Polyappearance
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 187
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 191
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 160
Space-Time Management 145
Correspondence 4
The Mage is in multiple places simultaneously.
Observers see the Mage's interactions with all locations,
however, they are not able to act independently. To
process the information from multiple locations, Mind
is extremely helpful, and with Life and Prime in
addition to Mind, the Mage can create additional bodies
and split their attention.
Simon's Petition
Order of Reason page 107
Correspondence 4, Mind 1
The legendary Simon of Ghita was able to address
many visitors to his tower simultaneously from different
windows. This effect allows a Mage to be in multiple
places at once and hold independent conversations.
Time Manipulation
The manipulation of time allows Mages to do things
more quickly, or else to draw things out for themselves
or others. In extreme circumstances, a Mage can even
travel through Time, though this rarely ends well.
Accelerate Time
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 218
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 223
Time 3
The Mage can dilate time, speeding it up in a given
area, as though fast-forwarding.
An Hour in Hellfire
Infernalism: The Path of Screams page 86
Mind 3, Time 3
Originating among the Fallen, this rote allows the
Mage to prolong any sensation whatsoever. Whether
painful or pleasurable in origin, it is drawn out for an
endless moment and amplified to the point of being
overwhelming. Contrary to the title, this is not just an
hour, but rather lasts for the usual duration, and is most
commonly used as a form of torture. To concentrate
while the victim of this effect, a Willpower roll is
146 Enlightened Grimoire
necessary with difficulty determined by how intense the
base sensation is. This effect can only be broken,
however, by a sensation more powerful than the original
stimulus.
Distort Time
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 193
Time 3
A Disciple of Time can generate fast and slow time
bubbles. Every two successes allow the Mage to
accelerate or decelerate by one factor, so that two
successes doubles, four triples, etc. This includes actions
in combat.
Establish and Exchange Temporal Event Fields
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 47
Time 5
This allows the Void Engineer to create a "Temporal
Event Field" around a distant point in time. By using
Establish Local Temporal Event Field around the
Chrononaut, the two fields can have their contents
exchange, essentially time travel.
Establish Local Temporal Event Field
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 46
Time 4
This procedure pauses time around an individual or
an object.
The Frenzy of the Spinning Wheels
Artisan's Handbook page 52
Time 3
Allows the user to operate machinery that requires
many simultaneous actions by themselves.
The Moment that Stretches
Hidden Lore page 14
Mind 1 or 4, Time 3
The Mage can alter their sense of time, allowing them
to subjectively experience a much longer period's time
than occurs. Note, this doesn't give extra actions and no
other magick may be done during this, but mental
processes move much more quickly. Mind 4 is needed
to include others.
Nick of Time
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (Revised) page 64
Correspondence 3, Entropy 2, Time 2
This rote gives the Reality Hacker excellent timing,
just right for whatever it is they need to do in a situation.
Often, this helps find jobs, being online at the right
time, or at the next table to someone who needs to hire
a person like them.
Quantum Temporal Travel
Tradition Book: Sons of Ether (Revised) page 63
Time 3 or 5, Correspondence 3 or 4, Entropy 4
Rather than attempting "true" time travel, some
Etherites have developed a technique for traveling to
the pasts and futures of alternate timelines. This cannot
change the present, but it can still be useful: visiting a
Utopian future for inspiration, for instance. Some
Ethernauts even explore these universes out of pure
curiosity, venturing into strange alternate realities.
Correspondence 3 transports one person, 4 can
transport a group, Time 4 allows very short hops (one
round/success) while Time 5 is needed for extended
journeys (as in the standard Time Sphere Timelines
chart on page 505 of Mage: The Ascension 20th
Anniversary Edition), and Time combined with
Entropy allows the Mage to travel to an alternate
timeline rather than the "true" one. More successes are
required to travel to timelines more distinct from the
"true" one, with one success providing timelines with
small changes and five needed to reach distant timelines
(such as where the Order of Hermes dominates the
world's paradigm).
Objects returns from alternate timelines that either
produce magickal effects in the "true" timeline or have
duplicates fade over time. Some Etherites theorize that
rather than travelling through time, this rote brings the
Mage to the Mirror Zone of the Umbra.
Serenity of the Stone
Horizon: Stronghold of Hope page 115
Masters of the Art page 76
Prime 5, Time 5, Entropy 4, Life 3, Mind 3
Rather than actively making a Mage younger, some
opt to slow the process of aging to the point where it is
barely happening at all. Maintaining it requires that the
Mage expend a point of Quintessence every week, or
else take a Lethal damage per day and begin aging
Space-Time Management 147
rapidly to at least (often more) than their actual age.
This effect usually causes a Mage to age by a single year
for every fifty that they experience.
Shed the Years
Horizon: Stronghold of Hope page 114
Masters of the Art page 76
Prime 5, Entropy 4, Life 3, Mind 2, Time 2
Potions of Youth, Phoenix Engines, and other
techniques for decreasing age all fall under this rote.
With it, the Mage can return their body to the state it
was is nine years prior. It requires at least five successes
and is vulgar everywhere on Earth and only safely used
in an appropriate Horizon Realm.
Sidestep Time
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 219
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 223
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 193
Time 5
The Master of Time can step outside of the flow of
time, effectively halting the entire world, from their
perspective.
Slow Time
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 219
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 223
Time 3
The opposite of Accelerate Time, Slow Time
decreases the flow of time in a small area.
St. Vitus's Kiss
Mage: The Sorcerer's Crusade page 272
The Swashbuckler's Handbook page 95 (as Beat of the
Blade)
Time 3
This effect speeds up the Mage's reflexes, giving extra
actions for successes after the first.
Symphony of the Soul
Order of Reason page 87
Time 3
This rote grants the Mage extra actions in combat and
is particularly appropriate for melee combat and
fencing.
Time Travel
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 219
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 223
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 194
Time 5
The Master of Time who performs this effect just
disappears from where they are and appears in a
different time. An anchor point can be used to allow the
Mage to return to when they came from, and if not, the
trip is one-way. This rote is extremely dangerous,
especially travel to the past, and can cause massive
amounts of Paradox (see pages 107-108 of How Do You
Do That? for details).
Time Warp
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 193
Time 3
If need be, a Disciple of Time can rewind time locally,
spending successes on area, granting immunity from the
effect to others, and how far back to rewind (up to one
round per success). Repeated use of this effect becomes
harder, as rewinding past an already performed rewind
needs to spend successes to overcome the successes on
the original rote.
Tune In, Turn On, Drop Out
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 228
Time 4, Life 3
This rote freezes time for the Mage's Pattern, causing
them to fake death. For each hour in this state, the Mage
takes one level of Lethal damage. The Mage has frozen
time for their brain as well, so they have no awareness
of the time passing or what is going on around them.
Zen and the Art of Panhandling
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 229
Time 5, Prime 3
The Mage can "borrow" Quintessence from their
future self, but they cannot be sure how far into the
future. They may gain one Quintessence for each
success, and at some point, in the future, the Storyteller
148 Enlightened Grimoire
informs them that they have lost an equivalent amount
of Quintessence.
Warping Space
Since the early 20th century, Sleepers have known
what Mages have for millennia: that space is a lot less
definite than it seems. These rotes allow the Mage to
bend space into unusual configurations and create
pocket dimensions and other things.
Blindside
Hidden Lore page 50
Correspondence 4, Matter 2
Though this only causes minor damage, the
Nephandus can use it to get under their victim's skin by
attacking them using a route that seems impossible.
Some popular choices are to reach through a drain, send
gas through a telephone handset, or fill a confined area
with water.
Bubble of Reality
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 190
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 160
Correspondence 4
A Mage with the appropriate knowledge can create a
pocket dimension, trapping an object or being outside
of space.
Daedalean Labyrinth
Order of Reason page 107
Correspondence 5
Creates a region of confusing space, where it is easy to
become lost. This is usually used to protect a secret
portion of a library, a mansion at the center of a hedge
maze, or the like. Anyone trapped in the Labyrinth gets
lost if they don't get more successes on a Willpower roll
than the labyrinth designer got in creating it. Once lost,
Correspondence is necessary to find your location and
work your way out of the labyrinth.
Maze of the Minotaur
Dead Magic page 107
Mind 3, optional Correspondence 4
Space-Time Management 149
A craftsman can build a maze so complex that it
causes anyone inside it to lose their sense of direction.
With just Mind, the target loses track of their path,
doubts their techniques to keep track of it, and needs to
acquire more successes on Wits + Enigmas rolls than the
number of successes on this effect. With
Correspondence included, the area itself becomes more
confusing and mutable.
Singularity
Convention Book: Void Engineers (Revised) page 86
Correspondence 4, Time 3
Using exotic matter, a Void Engineer can produce an
actual singularity. This singularity will slow down time
nearby and cause other relativistic effects. They can also
be used as gateways to another location. Successes are
first spent on targets/area, then distance and duration,
and then time slows by a factor of 1 + successes.
Optionally, time travel to up to one round per success
before the Singularity is formed is possible, though of
course at the levels of paradox caused by time travel.
Spatial Mutations
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 188
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 191
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 160
Correspondence 5
Though creating space directly is more complex than
can be achieved with a single Sphere, a Master of
Correspondence can bend space to their whim. They
can cause things to shrink, grow, distort in other way,
can cause geometries that are impossible in the normal
world, their imagination is the only limit.
150 Enlightened Grimoire
Summoning, Binding
and Warding
Although Movement and Communication covers
how to get to and travel within the Umbra, this chapter
consists of rotes for dealing with the beings that call it
home. However, spirits are not the only beings that can
be summoned, bound or warded against, and so these
topics are construed more broadly.
This chapter begins with rotes that handle Basic Interactions
with spirits, then continues on to Binding
rituals, rotes that aid in Perception of these beings,
Summoning rituals and finally Warding.
Basic Interactions
The rotes in this section focus on the basic interactions
between Mages and spirits and their world. They
focus on transferring Quintessence so that the Mage can
bargain and on combat with spirits when bargaining
fails.
Chiminage Rune
Dead Magic 2 page 101
Prime 3 or 4, Spirit 2
This rune creates a channel between the Mage and the
spirit allowing them to send Quintessence to the spirit
in exchange for a service. With Prime 4, Quintessence
can be drawn from the earth, rather than from the
Mage's personal reserves.
Dimension Bomb
Guide to the Technocracy page 207
Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition page 605
Dimensional Science 3, optional Forces 3, Prime 2
Often used to attack Extra Dimensional Entities, the
Technocrat can push a small object through the
Gauntlet.
Hellfire
Order of Reason page 85
Spirit 2
Like the Prime effect Wrath of God, except that it
works against ghosts and spirits.
Sharing the Outsider's Gaze
Infinite Tapestry page 183
Mind 4, Prime 1, Spirit 3
152 Enlightened Grimoire
This allows the Mage to share in a Spirit's senses.
Spirits often have senses completely alien to
humans (tasting quintessence, experiencing
emotions as tangible, etc.). Each success gives access
to a sense that is analogous to a human sense but
attuned to something else (such as seeing destiny),
two successes allows access to a truly alien sense (i.e.,
four-dimensional perception) though this requires a
Willpower roll with difficulty at least 7. Success
means that the Mage can effectively use the sense,
failure or, worse, botching, risks pushing the Mage
into Quiet.
Spirit Eating
Tradition Book: Dreamspeakers (Revised) page 69
Mind 3, Prime 3, Spirit 2
The Dreamspeaker empowers a weapon to attack
a spirit, as in Spirit Slaying. Unlike Spirit Slaying,
the Mage doesn't only attack the spirit, but siphons
off its Prime energy and its knowledge, consuming
them. The spirit destroyed this way is gone forever.
Each level of damage done with this rote gives the
user a point of Quintessence and reduces the spirit's
Power by 5 points. If the spirit's Power reaches 0, it
is destroyed forever. Successes on this effect also go
into absorbing the memories of the spirit. One
success gives a few memories, two gives access to the
most recent memories, three give most memories
and four or more give access to virtually all
memories.
Spirit Slaying
Tradition Book: Dreamspeakers (Revised) page 69
Spirit 2, Prime 2
A Dreamspeaker can infuse a weapon with prime
energy so that it can strike through the Gauntlet and
cause serious harm to attacked spirits.
Spirit Wounding
Book of Shadows page 143
Spirit 4, Matter 3
Learned from the Fae, this rote allows a Verbena
to push physical objects into the Umbra without
entering it themselves.
The Spirit's Caress
Summoning, Binding and Warding 153
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 218 (as The
Spirit Kiss)
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 187
Spirit 2
The Mage can directly interact with spirits through
the Gauntlet with this rote, reaching across to touch
them. It can be used to attack a spirit, but it can also be
combined with Bond of Blood to give Quintessence to
the spirit.
Spiritual Persuasion
Tradition Book: Dreamspeakers (Revised) page 67
Mind 2, Spirit 2
This rote both summons a spirit and influences it to
be more favorably inclined towards the shaman. It
decreases the difficulty of rolls to persuade the spirit by
one per success.
Binding
Either when it is negotiated for or else when negotiations
break down or are impossible, eventually most
Spirit Mages have need of the ability to bind a spirit.
This section also includes rotes to break bindings and
forcibly expel spirits from people that they possess.
Binding Song
Dead Magic 2 page 126
Correspondence 4, Time 3
The Binding Song halts a person in time and space.
They will perceive what is going on around them, and if
the caster wishes, they may speak, but all other
movement is impossible.
Bottle of Djinn
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page 88
Spirit 4, Matter 3, Prime 2
Using techniques going back to Suleiman the Wise
himself, the Taftani is no longer at the mercy of Djinni,
154 Enlightened Grimoire
but rather can control them. By creating a container and
a trigger phrase, a djinn can be sucked into the bottle,
and the Mage has three turns to seal the bottle so that
the djinn cannot escape.
Circle of Binding
Infinite Tapestry page 182
Spirit 4, Prime 4, Correspondence 4
The Order of Hermes has always had powerful
techniques for summoning and binding spirits. Most of
these techniques have, at their core, a Circle of Binding.
This takes the form of a circle inlaid on the floor (often
in a precious metal) and graven with sigils and signs.
This rote summons the spirit and traps it within wards,
permitting spirits in but not out of the Circle. The usage
of Prime accrues successes to resist any mystical effect
that the spirit uses within the Circle.
Coerce Spirit
The Spirit Ways page 89
Mind 3, Spirit 2 or 4
Sometimes a shaman doesn't know how to handle a
spirit or otherwise cannot manage a negotiation.
Instead, they can use this rote, though it tends to hurt
their relationship with spirits in general. The Spirit 2
version attempts to seize control of the spirit's
consciousness, whereas Spirit 4 allows the shaman to
take over the spirit's ephemeral nature directly.
Compel the Unseen
Tradition Book: Order of Hermes (First Edition) page 65
Prime 3, Spirit 2
Hermetics have used this rote for centuries to force a
spirit to materialize.
Drahma Protector
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (Revised) page 69
Mind 4, Spirit 4
This rote makes a spirit accept the Akashic paradigm.
The spirit will then protect Akashics wherever it finds
them. The Mage needs more successes than the spirit's
Gnosis + Willpower to make the spirit loyal to the
Akashayana for the duration of the effect.
Ensure the Endless Sleep
Dead Magic 2 page 64
Matter 2, Mind 3, Spirit 2
It is essential that Dreamtime spirits stay asleep (see
Dreamborn Rising for some consequences if they do
not). This rote allows Mages to guarantee that such
spirits stay in a deep slumber.
Exorcism
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 219
Spirit 4
Just as an Adept of Spirit can bind a spirit to an object
or person, they can forcibly remove one. This rote
triggers a contested Willpower roll between the spirit
and the Mage, and if the Mage can gather enough
successes (determined by the strength of the Spirit), the
Mage can force the Spirit out.
Exorcism Song
Dead Magic 2 page 126
Mind 4, Spirit 2
A combination of Mind and Spirit magick are used to
gentle coax a spirit who is unwanted to leave their host.
Gauntlet Prison
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 215
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 218
Spirit 4
An Adept of Spirit has fine enough control over the
Gauntlet to trap a spirit, or other traveler, inside it.
Halt the Nagloper
Dead Magic page 28
Life 2, Matter 2, Time 2
By placing a false club at the entrance to a home, it
causes a nagloper who tries to enter to freeze so long as
no one speaks within its hearing.
The Holy Pentacles
Tradition Book: Order of Hermes (First Edition) page 66
Spirit 4
Hermetics have special symbols, called pentacles, that
they use for summoning and binding of spirits. This
effect combines Breach the Gauntlet and Gauntlet
Prison to first permit a spirit to enter and then to trap
them within the area.
Imbue Flesh
Summoning, Binding and Warding 155
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 224
Life 2, Spirit 2
Given a body with no spirit in it, this allows the Mage
to bind a spirit to it as a Familiar.
Lesser Binding of Spirits
Tradition Book: Dreamspeakers (Revised) page 66
Prime 2, Spirit 2, optional Mind 2
While higher levels of Spirit are needed to directly
compel spirits to do a Mage's bidding, this rote
summons a spirit and immediately encloses it in a cage
of primal energy. Another success creates the primal
cage capable of causing two levels of aggravated damage
at any time the Mage wills it, two additional successes
can make the effect last for up to a day (or until used)
and cause four levels of damage instead of two.
With Mind 2, the Mage creates a sensation of the
futility of resistance in the spirit.
Living Bridge
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 219
Spirit 4
The Mage makes a pact with a powerful spirit and may
channel some of that spirit's powers for the duration of
the effect.
Lull the Waking Dreamborn
Dead Magic 2 page 65
Mind 3, Spirit 2
This long ritual is used by Aboriginal Australians to
lull a spirit into slumber. The ritual gathers successes
opposed by the spirit's Willpower roll. If the Mage is a
child of a specific Dreamborn who is being lulled back
to sleep, the difficulty of the ritual is at -2. If the spirit
loses, it falls into Slumber.
Physical Exorcism
The Spirit Ways page 91
Spirit 4, Life 3, Prime 2
Sometimes, an invasive spirit needs to be destroyed.
This rote not only expels it from whoever or whatever it
is possessing, but also binds it into a newly created
physical form that can be killed.
Weaver's Retribution
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page 92
Spirit 4, Correspondence 3, Forces 3, Mind 2, Prime 2
This rote is rarely taught, and even more rarely used.
It is largely considered a suicide maneuver only to be
used in the most desperate circumstances. The Taftani
first expands their senses to find every djinn within
several kilometers, then simultaneously unseals all of
them.
The djinni then proceed to do whatever they want,
which is usually wanton and undirected destruction,
killing the Mage, their enemies, and whatever else is
nearby.
Perception
Before interacting directly with spirits, a Mage must
be able to perceive them. Before an exorcism can be
done, the possession needs to be confirmed. This section's
rotes focus on the supposedly simple act of perceiving
these otherworldly beings.
Detect Possession
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 217
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 187
Spirit 1
Determines if there is a foreign spirit in a person or
object, though without Cosmology or Mind magick, the
Mage doesn't necessarily understand much other than
that the spirit is present.
Evaluate Gauntlet/Scan Locality
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 41
Dimensional Science 1
This allows the Void Engineer to check the strength
of the Gauntlet in a given location.
Sense the Demon's Weakness
Book of Crafts page 135
Entropy 1, Spirit 1
156 Enlightened Grimoire
This allows a Wu Lung to focus on a demon and
determine the essential weakness of its nature.
Sense the Nagloper
Dead Magic page 28
Life 2, Time 2, Matter 1
The Mage makes a shallow cut in the subject and rubs
in a magickal powder. If a nagloper approaches, this
burns and itches, awakening the subject so that they
may defend themselves.
Shadows in the Mist
Book of Shadows page 143
Forces 2, Spirit 1
In a fog or a mist, this rote allows the wisps to form
the rough shapes of umbral objects and beings.
Summoning
Often strongly associated with Hermetics and
Dreamspeakers, summoning is a much more general
and more useful magickal discipline practiced across
many groups of Mages. Most summoning has to do
with spirits, but not all. These rotes all call something
from afar that must arrive, usually a spirit, but sometimes
something that is already in the physical world.
Ap-Sobk, "Last Judgment of Sobk"
Book of Crafts page 58
Spirit 4
For a high-ranking member of the Hem-Ka Sobk, they
can spit on their palms, rub them together, and petition
Sobk for assistance. If they succeed, it is equivalent to
Living Bridge, causing the Mage to be possessed by the
crocodile god itself. Misuse of this rote results in the
spirit killing the Mage.
Call Forth the Forgotten
Book of Shadows page 147
Life 5, Prime 2, Spirit 2
The Mage calls forth a creature of myth, summoning
an appropriate spirit to inhabit a newly created form. If
the creature is to have any powers other than just a
body, the Mage needs to include other Spheres (such as
Forces for flight or fire-breathing, in the case of a
dragon).
Summoning, Binding and Warding 157
Call Spirit
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 214
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 217
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 187
Spirit 2
Allows the Mage to call out for a spirit to show up, it
can be a general call or specific. Powerful spirits rarely
appear, but a powerful call can compel weaker ones to
do so.
Call the Dreamborn Sibling
Dead Magic 2 page 63
Spirit 2
This rote is used by Aboriginal Australians to
summon spirits of the Dreamtime.
Conjure the Jade Warrior
Book of Crafts page 135
Spirit 5, Matter 3, Prime 3
This rote is used by the Wu Lung to create a giant
warrior clad in ancient, jade armor. This warrior is then
inhabited by a warrior spirit and exists both physically
and in the spirit realm simultaneously.
Dreamborn Rising
Dead Magic 2 page 63
Life 4, Matter 4, Mind 3, Spirit 2
This rote can rouse a quiescent Dreamborn spirit. As
this only can affect the most powerful such spirits and
they emerge ravenous for Quintessence and life form
with no sense of who they are, this rote is forbidden.
This is in direct opposition to Ensure the Endless Sleep.
Drums of Elemental Fire
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 227
Spirit 2, Forces 2, Matter 2
Drums are a well-known and long venerated
instrument for spirit magic. With this rote, a drummer
can bring forth an elemental spirit. Of course, this
doesn't guarantee that the elemental will be friendly.
Enter the Sauna
Dead Magic 2 page 126
Spirit 2
158 Enlightened Grimoire
The Mage uses a meditative trance to reach out to
spirits. For each success, the Mage may ask one yes/no
question of the divining spirits.
Free the Mad Howlers
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 218
Spirit 3 or 4
This rote summons frenzied, angry spirits to attack
their enemies. With Spirit 3 the Mage summons spirits
who can materialize, with Spirit 4 they seal the spirits
into their targets as though they were a fetish, causing
the spirits to possess them.
Gremlins
Hidden Lore page 15
Entropy 2, Spirit 2
A Dreamspeaker who must deal with a
Technomagickal problem will often summon gremlins,
spirits that arose during the Second World War that
interfere with machinery.
Here Kitty, Kitty
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (Revised) page 62
Correspondence 3, Mind 3, Time 3
Created by a Virtual Adept named Zer0 Effect, this
rote summons something that hates your
opponent…though there's no guarantee that it won't
ALSO hate you. Mind draws something from your
opponent's fears, and Correspondence and Time open
coincidental means for that thing to show up in a timely
manner.
Jack in the Green
Hidden Lore page 18
Spirit 3, Life 2
This rote awakens the spirit of a tree and allows the
Mage to communicate with it. Winter makes it harder,
as does the tree being in an urban setting.
Loving Scar
Hidden Lore page 49
Life 3, Spirit 2
The Nephandus scars the victim. The more intimate
the situation the leads to it, and the more willing the
Summoning, Binding and Warding 159
victim is, the more effective this rote is. This scar does
no damage, but Life 4 is needed to remove it.
The victim then attracts low level spirits to spy on
them and torment them, though they do no (lasting,
physical) damage.
Nuzzlings
Hidden Lore page 52
Prime 5, Matter 3, Spirit 3
This creates a zone of objects animated by spirits
centered on the Mage. Successes dictate how large this
zone is, and the objects drain Quintessence from any
sources in the area.
Protection of the Golden Race
Dead Magic page 108
Spirit 5, Prime 2
The Golden Race are the first humans in Greek
mythology, the ones who lived during the Golden Age.
This rote summons a member of the Golden Race to
protect the Mage from an opponent. It is always vulgar
and may require many successes, but if the member of
the Golden Race appears, there is a flash of golden light
as it harms the attacker in some appropriate manner.
Pygmalion's Paradigm
Book of Shadows page 146
Matter 4, Life 3, Prime 2, Spirit 2
The Mage crafts a body out of high quality materials
to be inhabited by a Familiar. The number of successes
determines how powerful a Familiar can be housed in
this body.
Satan's Song
Infernalism: The Path of Screams page 86
Mind 2, Forces 2, Spirit 2, Prime 3, with optional Forces 3, Life 2,
Matter 2
Although Prime is the highest ranked sphere, this is
primarily a Mind and Spirit effect. The Mage begins a
musical performance, and uses it to summon demons,
and to cause hallucinations in the audience. The Song
inflames whatever lusts the audience is feeling, and can
quickly, with enough successes, bring absolute mayhem
to wherever the Song is being performed.
With further Pattern spheres added in, the Song will
raise the dead, bringing undead into the chaotic and
unconstrained revelry along with the hallucinations and
the demons.
Shaking Tent
Dead Magic page 131
Spirit 3
The Innu Shaman enters a cylindrical tent calls up a
spirit. The shaman opens themselves up to communion
with the spirit to negotiate whatever it is that they want
from it. This ritual confines the spirit to the tent, so long
as no one is foolish enough to open it.
Spirit Roster
Hidden Lore page 15
Correspondence 2, Spirit 1 or 2
This rote finds any nearby spirits and, with Spirit 2,
allows the Mage to speak with them.
Summon Paradox Spirit
Technocracy: New World Order page 49
Spirit 2
Under desperate circumstances, a Technocrat who
knows how can summon a Paradox Spirit into an area.
It will tend to focus on whoever has accumulated the
most Paradox, but it is still a desperate gamble, not used
unless there is no other choice.
Summon the Earthly Gods
Dragons of the East page 59
Spirit 4, Mind 4, Correspondence 4
The Wu Lung claim a Heavenly authority over
Eastern supernatural beings. This rote allows them to
summon a Kuei-Jin, Hengeyokai or Hsien for an
audience, where they cannot harm the Mage. This
requires 2 successes plus a number equal to the target's
permanent Willpower to force the target to travel the
swiftest way it can to the Wu Lung's location, though
with two additional successes the target is teleported
before the Mage immediately.
Visionary Bloodletting
Dead Magic page 76
Spirit 2, Mind 1
Through bloodletting (at least two lethal damage) in a
spiritually significant location on the Mage's body, they
can commune with gods and spirits and receive visions
160 Enlightened Grimoire
from them. Spirit calls to the spirit or god and allows
the Mage to see their message, Mind filters it through
appropriate symbols for the Mage to interpret.
Zeitgeist
Tradition Book: Cult of Ecstasy (First Edition) page 65
Tradition Book: Cult of Ecstasy (Revised) page 73
Mind 2, Spirit 2, Time 2
The Cultist calls forward the spirit of some time
period, such as "The Summer of Love", "Black Tuesday"
or "The Burning Times." This unleashes the spirit's
resonance, to touch the emotions of everyone affected
by the rote.
Warding
Warding is the foundation of defensive magick. It is
used to prevent access to a place that the Mage needs to
protect. These rotes all create some kind of warding effect,
whether by pushing some types of beings to stay
away or else by actually making them unable to enter.
Affix Gauntlet
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 189
Spirit 4
The Mage is capable of precisely hardening the
Gauntlet. This allows the Mage to prevent spirits from
entering or leaving a space, to place a spirit within a
person or object, or any number of other effects.
Circle Ward
Tradition Book: Verbena (First Edition) page 64
Spirit 2, Mind 1, Prime 2
By summoning four separate, powerful spirits, usually
forming a symbolic set of four (seasons, directions,
elements), the Verbena creates a safe space in which to
work.
Counterintelligence
Technocracy: New World Order page 44
Convention Book: New World Order (Revised) page 87
Prime 1, Data 1 or Mind 1
Though proactive measures are preferred, in some
situations even the New World Order must react to
others. This Procedure provides defenses, particularly to
mental attacks, and acts as countermagick.
Defense Screen Versus Higher Lifeforms
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 43
Life 3
Like Defense Screen Versus Lower Lifeforms, but it
repels more complex life, such as sharks, dolphins or
even people, though people can overcome it with a
Willpower roll.
Defense Screen Versus Lower Lifeforms
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 43
Life 2
This Procedure uses chemical pheromones and
ultrasonic vibrations to repel lower lifeforms.
Etheric Shielding
Tradition Book: Sons of Ether (Revised) page 61
Matter 2, Spirit 2, optional Prime 2
Regular matter can be imbued with the ability to
block out otherworldly creatures. Each success spent
increases the Gauntlet at the location of the material,
blocking spirits from crossing it. If Prime is included,
then the material gets additional soak dice against spirit
attacks.
Fortify Gauntlet
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 41
Dimensional Science 2
To protect the world from dangerous aliens, Void
Engineers have developed techniques for increasing the
Gauntlet in small areas.
Magic Circle
Tradition Book: Verbena (Revised) page 67
Prime 2, Spirit 2
This rote creates a circle around the user, of radius
one yard per success up to the Verbena's arete. Further
successes go to duration (up to the length of a ritual
performed inside it) and countermagick. This
countermagick protects those inside the circle from
attempts to disrupt the ritual, and spirits must make
Willpower rolls against it to cross the boundary.
Summoning, Binding and Warding 161
The Master's Hand
Mage Storyteller's Companion page 63
Life 1, Prime 2
This sets a device or warding or other long-term and
permanent effects to only work or to permit passage to
a list of "approved users."
Protection Song
Dead Magic 2 page 126
Correspondence 4, Forces 2, optional Spirit 2
This rote combines Ward and Energy Shield and with
Spirit, extends to the Umbra as well.
Psychic Sterilization
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 215
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 218
Spirit 4
This Technomagickal rote strengthens the gauntlet in
such a way as to keep spirits out of an area.
Quahuitl
Dead Magic page 79
Correspondence 4
A quahuitl is a cord cut to a specific length for
measuring. When used by a Mage, they can set specific
areas to have specific purposes, like zoning. Functionally
like Ward, it prevents the wrong sort of beings from
entering or exiting areas.
Quantum Interference Shielding
Guide to the Technocracy page 207
Dimensional Science 2, optional Prime 2
When encountering Extra Dimensional Entities,
every Technocrat learns the importance to defense.
Quantum Interference Shielding allows the Technocrat
to strengthen the Gauntlet, making it more difficult for
anything to cross over. With Prime, this shielding also
provides countermagick against any attempts to cross or
attacks across the Gauntlet.
Reconstruct Gauntlet
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 42
Dimensional Science 4
162 Enlightened Grimoire
At this point, a Void Engineer can repair a damaged
piece of the Gauntlet, preventing anything from
crossing through.
Repel the Hungry Dead
Book of Crafts page 135
Spirit 4, Prime 2
This creates a spiritual barrier around the Wu Lung
that prevents possession.
Repel the Kuei
Dragons of the East page 59
Mind 2 or Spirit 2
By setting off a string of firecrackers, a Wu Lung can
drive away unwanted demons, ghosts and even people.
Safe Little World
Orphan's Survival Guide page 129
Correspondence 4, Life 3;
Correspondence 4, Spirit 3;
Correspondence 4, Spirit 3, Life 3;
Spirit 3, Mind 2;
Mind 3, Life 1, Correspondence 2
The effect protects the Mage's things, so that no one
can tamper with them. It prevents anyone or anything
from entering without the Mage's knowledge.
The simplest version prevents human trespassers.
With Spirit 3, it can prevent spirits from entering. The
Spirit 3/Mind 2 can post a spirit as a guard on the area,
and it can attack anyone who enters the area. A simple
Mind 3, Life 1, Correspondence 2 effect will let the
Mage know if anyone enters the area without preventing
them from doing so.
Salt on the Earth
Tradition Book: Euthanatos (Revised) page 66
Correspondence 4, Entropy 1
This rote wards an area against Entropic energies. The
most common application is to create a circle of salt and
use it to block ghosts from entering an area.
Secret Labyrinth
Artisan's Handbook page 53
Spirit 4, Mind 3, Prime 2
Creates a maze around a location that is designed
particularly to trap spirits by strengthening the
Gauntlet. The spirit may roll Willpower with difficulty
7, and on more successes than the Mage, may refuse to
enter the labyrinth. Otherwise, they may roll
Intelligence + Enigmas once per day to escape the maze.
The Seven Golden Swords of the Tiger
Book of Crafts page 135
Matter 3, Spirit 3, Correspondence 4, Forces 2, Prime 2
A powerful Wu Lung alchemical technique, it creates
either a circle of blades or an ultra-sharp barrier. Both
version prevent people, spirits or Correspondence from
entering the area it surrounds.
Spirit Wall
Mage: The Sorcerer's Crusade page 273
Spirit 4
The mage creates a sigil and uses it to summon a
spirit, open a gateway for it, and then trap it with walls
to protect the Mage from that summoned spirit.
Spirit Warding
The Spirit Ways page 89
Spirit 2 or 4, Prime 2
Spirit Warding protects an area from spiritual attack
or interference. With Spirit 2, each success increases the
Gauntlet by one to a maximum of ten, and the Spirit 4
version actually creates a shield that prevents spirits
from materializing in the region. Furthermore, the
Prime 2 component causes damage to any spirit that
tries to enter the region.
Telltale
Order of Reason page 65
Correspondence 2
Originating among the Gabrielites and Craftmasons),
this common defensive rote protects small objects
(smaller than a house-cat) from being stolen via
Correspondence magick. The successes of this effect
must be overcome before the object can be disturbed
surreptitiously.
Time Wards
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 192
Time 2
Summoning, Binding and Warding 163
This blocks out a small period of time near the Mage
so that others cannot easily see into it.
Twisted Yarrow Stalks
Dragons of the East page 66
Mind 3, Correspondence 4, Entropy 2
The Wu-Keng prefer not to announce their power
when warding themselves. Using techniques from the I,
Ching, the Wu-Keng not only creates a Ward, but
creates random impressions of what is there, rather than
leaving a more traditional blank space announcing the
presence of something of interest.
Wall of Mirrors
Book of Shadows page 140
Correspondence 4, Forces 3
A purely defensive rote, that, in fact, prevents attacks
from being used effectively, the Wall of Mirrors causes
all attacks targeting the Chorister to lose successes
(depending on strength) as they are deflected through
teleportation and alteration of kinetic energy to miss,
ricocheting off things, bouncing off a wall, etc.
War the Inner Sanctum
Tradition Book: Order of Hermes (First Edition) page 66
Life 3, Correspondence 4
This warding effect prevents any living thing from
entering a demarcated region.
Ward
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 189
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 159
Correspondence 4
A Ward prevents others from being to form
connections to the protected location. With
conjunctional spheres, it is possible to filter who and
what can get through the Ward, and to determine the
consequences for crossing it.
Ward Rune
Dead Magic 2 page 99
Correspondence 4, Mind 3, optional Spirit 2
This rune creates a Ward, preventing the unwanted
from being able to find the Mage's location. With Spirit,
this barrier also stops wraiths and spirits.
Warding Heads
Dead Magic page 30
Spirit 3
The Mage carves a wooden head or mask, and in
doing so, makes it into a ward against malevolent spirits.
Zisurru
Dead Magic page 55
Correspondence 2, Spirit 2
The original ward against demons, from which most
Hermetic warding is descended, it creates a boundary
which spirits cannot cross.
164 Enlightened Grimoire
Transformations
From Circe turning Odysseus's crew into pigs to people
who wear the skins of wolves in order to become one,
transformations have been an important part of myth and
magick. The entire history of the Council of Nine depends in
part on a transformation: the creation of the Rebis, Heyley,
who betrayed the First Cabal to the Technocracy.
This chapter is divided among several different types of
transformations. The first merely Alter Appearance, followed
by more significant Alterations. After that, there is Creation,
when something not living is transformed into a livfeform.
Next are rotes that perform a large scale Metamorphosis,
changing the target into something fundamentally different.
Finally come those rotes that cause limited changes, generally
resulting in the Mage performing Self Improvement.
Alter Appearance
When a Mage alters their appearance, they have more
options than Sleepers could ever dream of. The rotes
in this section allow the Mage to change what they look
like drastically, including taking on the appearance of
someone else or even faking their death…even to the
point of being able to fool most Vampires.
Back Door Parole
Orphan's Survival Guide page 127
Life 3, Prime 1, optional Mind 2
The simpler version lets the Mage enter a trance and
stop their bodily functions without damaging them.
With Mind, the Mage can stay aware of their
surroundings. In this case, the Mage is capable of
walking around and acting while appearing to be dead,
fooling almost anyone other than a Mage sensing the
living Quintessence in them. Notably, this is effective at
tricking Vampires.
Deceive the Eyes
Book of Crafts page 57
Life 2, optional Mind 2;
Mind 3
A member of the Hem-Ka Sobk can hide their scars
and tattoos by rubbing ash into a cut in their arms and
blowing dust into the faces of a person allows them to
disguise something they don't want discovered.
Jivitamarana (Death in Life) Yoga
Tradition Book: Euthanatos (Revised) page 67
166 Enlightened Grimoire
Entropy 4 or Matter 4, Life 4
This effect creates a state of living near-death for the
Mage. For the duration, the Mage can soak lethal
damage, halves all bashing damage (before soaking), and
ignores wound penalties. Life effects targeting the mage
are at +1 difficulty as well. However, the Mage
automatically fails any touch-based Perception tests and
gains an additional Entropic Synergy trait for the
duration.
Love Me, Love Me
Dead Magic 2 page 81
Life 3, Mind 2
The Mage changes their (or another's) physical form
to be more appealing to the target in subtle ways,
making them more likely to fall in love with them.
Persona
Technocracy: New World Order page 49
Life 2 or 4, Mind 2
The Agent changes their appearance sufficiently to be
unrecognizable. Mind 2 is used to aid in the disguise by
preventing people from wanting to look more closely.
Life 2 is all that is needed for a new appearance, but Life
4 is needed to mimic another specific person
convincingly.
Rouge
Order of Reason page 73
Life 2
With careful application of cosmetics, the Mage can
decrease difficulties on Appearance based rolls for a
scene by the number of successes. Another option is to
use successes to create an effective Arcane for the user,
rendering their features so plain as to be unremarkable.
A third option is to create more memorable features:
one success can create a flaw or feature that is
memorable, three will cause viewers to recall incorrect
hair color and other features and five or more successes
will give an appearance completely unlike the Mage's
actual one.
Uther's Butchered Visage
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 224
Life 3, Mind 1
Transformations 167
By cutting away their own flesh, the Mage can
transform into a perfect physical duplicate of
anyone whose Pattern they have had the
opportunity to examine.
Alteration
Alteration is a broad category of effects that
change something, but not fundamentally. Attaching
a prosthetic limb would be an alteration, as is
growing crops more quickly than should be possible.
Agrivelopment
Convention Book: Progenitors (Revised) page 73
Life 3, Matter 3
With this Procedure, Progenitor Agronomists can
grow plants as much in a day as they normally would
in a month. This also restores topsoil and fertilizes
it. Though this can turn a patch of desert into
farmland, the seeds need to be provided and the
plants must be protected from hostile weather.
Alter Simple Creature
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 170
Life 2
This allows the Mage to heal or harm simple
creatures or to modify their basic properties in nonextreme
ways, up to the judgment of the Storyteller.
Alter Small Sequence
Technocracy: Progenitors page 43
Life 2
The Progenitor can make a single point mutation
to a genetic code. Some things that can be done
with this include
• correcting a genetic error in a developing fetus
• there is a point mutation that causes a person to
only need 4 hours of sleep to be fully rested
• cause cancer
Attach Biomechanism
Technocracy: Iteration X page 50
Matter 5, Life 3, Prime 3
Once a biomechanism has been made through
Craft Biomechanism, it must be attached to the user.
168 Enlightened Grimoire
The Life Pattern of the person and the Matter Pattern
of the mechanism must be carefully joined together
through surgery.
Augment Simple Lifeform
Technocracy: Progenitors page 41
Life 2
This FACADE Engineer Procedure is used to alter
simple lifeforms. It can increase size, for instance,
creating gigantic killer bees or spiders.
Brittle Bones
World of Darkness: Outcasts page 90
Entropy 4, Life 4
The targets bones are rendered brittle and weak,
reducing their soak dice by one per success.
Genetic Pattern Matching
Technocracy: Progenitors page 43
Life 4
The Genegineer can split code from one life form into
another, including humans. For instance, they can slice
amphibian genes into a human woman to give her the
ability to reproduce by parthenogenesis: natural
cloning.
Graft Alien Bio-Matter Between Animals
Technocracy: Progenitors page 41
Life 3
FACADE Engineers at this level can graft parts
between animals, such as adding wings to a cat. The
altered animal must learn to use the new parts, but
usually this will come with practice. Often, this is
augmented by the Mind sphere to enhance the
creature's intelligence.
Graft Alien Bio-Matter to Humans
Technocracy: Progenitors page 41
Life 4
Similar to Graft Alien Bio-Matter Between Animals,
this allows a FACADE Engineer to make such changes
to humans, such as giving a human a monkey's tail, or
replacing their hands with paws.
Green Thumb
Book of Crafts page 88
Life 2, optional Prime 2
The Mage can help their plants grow. Prime is
necessary if the soil is bad in some way.
Higher Lifeform Grafting and Recombination
Technocracy: Progenitors page 40
Life 4
The Progenitor may make large scale alterations to
humans. This includes creating things like minotaurs,
centaurs, merfolk, and the like. These, however, are not
Bygones, they are merely lifeforms that have a similar
shape, with no mystical powers whatsoever.
Limited Grafting and Recombination
Technocracy: Progenitors page 40
Life 3
The Progenitor can now manipulate their own body
in a limited way. This includes gaining features from
animals (claws, fangs, gills, etc.) though just having a
feature doesn't mean they know how to use them.
Lower Lifeform Manipulation
Technocracy: Progenitors page 40
Life 2
The Progenitor can alter simple animals in simple
ways, such as altering their size, minor body
modification (no fundamental functional changes),
healing and harming, and increasing the
pharmacological potency of any medicinal byproducts.
Major Environmental Alteration
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 44
Matter 3
Similar to Minor Environmental Alteration, though
capable of more significant changes, such as drilling
through solid rock and ice.
Minor Environmental Alteration
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 44
Matter 2
The Void Engineer at this point and make simple
changes to their local environment, such as extracting
oxygen from water.
Mokupuni Palahalaha Wiki
Dead Magic 2 page 29
Transformations 169
Life 2, Prime 3, Time 3
Polynesian Mages often want their own islands and
reefs away from prying eyes. This rote, whose name
translates to Coral Island Bloom, fast-forwards the
growth cycle of coral, allowing them to grow entire reefs
in days, rather than centuries.
Mold Tree
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 199
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 202
Life 2
Mages, mostly Verbena, use this rote to rework the
Patterns of trees, including bending its branches and
trunk into new shapes.
Personal Compression
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 220
Correspondence 5, Life 3, optional Matter 3
By warping space in dramatic ways, the Mage is
capable to shrinking, and dramatically so. Each success
allows the Mage to decrease their size and mass by up to
15%, and seven successes allows them to take any size
that they want. With Matter, they can bring possessions
along with them.
Phosphoric Marker
Hidden Lore page 17
Forces 3, Life 3, Correspondence 1
Also called "Greek Life-Fire", this causes every living
thing in the area to glow like a firefly. The Mage can
omit any specific beings that they want, often making it
easier for them and their allies to hide during a firefight.
Creation
When a Mage creates life in some way, that is an act
of transformation, from non-living to living. This section
includes rotes for creating a newborn and procedures
for growing a clone.
Clone
Technocracy: Progenitors page 41
Life 5
The FACADE Engineer can replicate a human or
animal given a tissue sample. No alterations to the
original that were not genetic are carried over, and this
Procedure is often used to grow new bodies for agents
operating in high risk areas.
Cloning
Technocracy: Progenitors page 40
Life 5
The Progenitor can create a full human body,
duplicating a body from a tissue sample. This is just an
empty body unless other Technology is used.
Courtesan's Draught/Blessed Heir
The Swashbuckler's Handbook page 90
Life 2 or 3, optional Correspondence 2
Life 2 for self, 3 for others, this rote allows the user to
control the target's fertility, either increasing or
decreasing it. Correspondence can be added to target at
a distance.
Fatherless Birth
Dead Magic 2 page 118
Entropy 5, Life 5, Prime 5, Spirit 5
One of the most difficult rotes, but capable of creating
a future great hero, Fatherless Births actually have a
spirit for a father, in general. The target must never have
conceived a child nor have a chance to otherwise
become pregnant. The Mage summons the spirit to be
the father, uses Life and Prime to create the seed of the
magical child that the woman must consume. Entropy
both guarantees that the seed leads to pregnancy and
that the child will have a great destiny.
Flesh Toys
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 224
Life 3 or 5, Prime 2
The Mage creates life, with simple life at Life 3 and
more complex requiring Life 5. The amount and
complexity of the creatures determines the number of
successes, with the number doubled for creating
something new rather than duplicating existing life.
The Foundling
Mage Storyteller's Companion page 63
170 Enlightened Grimoire
Correspondence 2, Life 5, Matter 2, Mind 3, Spirit 4
Used by a Master who knows that they are about to
die, this ties the Mage's avatar to their most prized
possession as a phylactery, teleports it somewhere on
Earth to a couple that is desperate for a child, and
creates the body of a newborn to hold their spirit. The
couple are influenced to hold the phylactery and keep it
safe for the child until it is older, and when the child is
ready to make their way into the world, the Memento
Mori effect triggers, prompting Awakening and
returning the Mage's memories of their previous life.
Genetic Mastery
Technocracy: Progenitors page 43
Life 5
With complete mastery of genetics, a Genegineer at
this level can create virtually any creature that they can
imagine, with enough successes.
Oak of Sanguine Root
Blood Treachery page 89
Correspondence 2, Prime 2, Life 3, Matter 3
This Hermetic rote causes an oak tree to sprout and
quickly grow inside a Vampire's body. It feeds on the
undead corpse and the power of its blood, dealing
standard Life effect damage to the Vampire as well as
piercing its heart with a wooden stake. Finally, removing
the tree, which is almost certain to die quickly, will likely
also cause damage to the Vampire, as it is intertwined
among the Vampire's organs and bones.
Spontaneous Generation
Dead Magic page 108
Life 3 or Matter 3, Prime 2
Greek philosophy permitted the creation of life or
matter from nothing. Of course, only certain things
cause the spontaneous generation of other things, such
as maggots coming from old meat. This allows the Mage,
supported by some theory of spontaneous generation,
to create something from nothing.
Supporting the Brain
Book of Shadows page 143
Life 4, Matter 2, Mind 2, Prime 2
Using Pattern spheres to handle the physical issues
and Mind to handle the mental ones, this rote allows an
Etherite to keep a brain alive outside of its body,
Transformations 171
whether just in a jar or in a new, better body. A robot
body.
Thorn Wall
Hidden Lore page 18
Time 3, Life 2, Prime 2
A traditional Verbena rote that is vulgar almost
everywhere on Earth, the Verbena clasps a thorn branch
as a wand, and lets their blood fall on the ground.
Where it falls, dense thorn bushes spring up in a shape
dictated by the Mage.
Metamorphosis
This section contains the full-scale transformations of
a human being into something else entirely. Most common
among these rotes are transformations of the Mage
or another person into the shape of an animal. Also,
among these rotes are various war forms that Mages can
take and have in the past when it was easier. Now, doing
such a thing is an even more desperate act than it
was before Paradox became the powerful force that it
now is.
Animal Form
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 201
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 203
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 171
Life 5
This rote allows the Mage to transform a target into
an animal. Conversely, animals can be turned into
humans with this level of control. This does run the risk
of the target losing themselves in their new form, their
mind reverting to the sort that belongs in their new
form.
Animal Shift
Dead Magic page 50
Life 4
This Babylonian rote allows a Mage to shift into an
animal form.
Avatar Form
Book of Shadows page 138
Life 4, Prime 2, Mind 2
The Akashic attempts to mirror Vibansumitra's
manifestation of his Avatar in the physical realm. It
hardens the skin to extreme temperatures (and
optionally like armor, at a cost of speed), the Mage grows
four additional arms and may add four dice to any
manual task's dice pool, though difficulties may increase
due to the need to focus when coordinating six arms.
Mind is used to project an overwhelming feeling of awe
into all who see the Avatar Form.
Circe's Enchantment
Tradition Book: Verbena (Revised) page 66
Life 5
This rote allows a Verbena to transform a human into
an animal. Five successes are required to transform the
target fully (fewer may result in a partial
transformation), with other successes put into targets
and duration.
Deity Form
Dead Magic 2 page 80
Forces 3, Life 4, Prime 4, Spirit 2, optional Entropy 5
This rote allows the Mage to become an Avatar of a
god, though at the cost of paradox as it is always vulgar.
The Mage gains the benefits of Friction Curse,
Telekinesis and Better Body, they take on the aspect of
the deity via Mutate Form and use Wellspring to
replenish power. Spirit calls to the deity who permits
this transformation. Optionally, Entropy 5 can be
added to renew the deity's worship, reinvigorating the
idea of the deity in those who see its avatar.
Dionysus's Gift
Tradition Book: Cult of Ecstasy (First Edition) page 66
Life 4 or 5, optional Matter 3, optional Forces 3
Dionysus was a shapechanger, and many Cultists look
to him to gain the ability. This allows them to change
shape (with Life 5 without the risk of losing themselves),
or to change the shapes of others. With Matter or
Forces, they can even turn their targets into inanimate
objects and energy.
Eagle Form
Dead Magic 2 page 128
172 Enlightened Grimoire
Mind 4, Spirit 2
The Mage shapechanges their Astral Form to an
Eagle, giving them the ability to move more easily
through the Umbra and the Gauntlets between
Umbral Realms.
Holy Union
Ascension, page 197-199
Spirit 4, Prime 3, Mind 3, optional Life 5
The Holy Union ritual summons a psychopomp
spirit from the deep Umbra and binds a part of its essence
to the Mage's avatar, granting several of the psychopomp's
powers to the Mage, specifically related to
guiding souls and manipulating avatars. The version
that can manipulate the avatars of the living requires
Life 5. This is the ritual used by Heylel to become rebis,
which is still the term for those who go through
this ritual.
Spirit is used to summon the psychopomp, Prime
prepares the Mage to assimilate the essence permanently
(as in Enchant Life), and as the fragment is sentient,
Mind is needed to communicate with it. As mentioned
above, Life is needed to manipulate avatars attached
to living beings (such as merging two of them,
as Heylel did) and otherwise the rebis is only capable
of manipulating disembodied avatars and avatar fragments.
The ritual requires 10 successes to last for a day, 14
to be made permanent, plus one per additional subject,
but because this is attempting to force something
alien into the avatar, it attempts to reject it resulting in
a +2 difficulty to the effect. Pages 198-199 of Ascension
detail the powers this effect grants, and the consequences
of those powers.
Iron Avatar
Tradition Book: Euthanatos (First Edition) page 67
Tradition Book: Euthanatos (Revised) page 60
Life 3, Matter 3, Mind 2, Prime 2, optional Spirit 4, Time 4
This rote merges the visages of Kali and Shiva to turn
the caster into a four-armed killer. The user of the rote
becomes 10 feet tall, their skin turns the color of
wrought iron and their four hands end in talons, each
holding a menacing weapon. Usually, these weapons
are swords, though variants with other weapons exist.
Transformations 173
Before devoting successes to duration, the Mage must
increase Strength to 6, spend three successes to soak
lethal and aggravated damage (soak dice per success) and
two more for extra arms. The extra arms give the Mage
four extra dice on unarmed and Melee dice pools.
Additional successes may be spent to add two dice to
these dice pools by making the Mage more coordinated
in their use. Three more successes must be spent to
create an aura of supernatural fear around the Mage,
causing Sleepers to flee and others to require a
Willpower roll at difficulty 6 with a minimum of three
successes to avoid doing so. An additional success is
needed to power it at all, along with three points on
quintessence.
The ritual to invoke this is time consuming, as it
requires many successes, and so it is often combined
with Time so that the effect may be prepared in advance
of a battle. If Spirit is added, a spirit of destruction is
invited into the Mage's body, giving the Mage access to
its Charms, though anything other than a complete
success risks possession.
Jaguar Cloak
Dead Magic page 78
Life 5, Matter 3, Prime 3, Spirit 2
This effect enchants a jaguar skin and attunes it to a
specific wearer. When worn, the user can transform into
a jaguar. With particularly strong will, the warrior can
manage partial transformation. Life transforms, Matter
binds the skin to the wearer, and Prime and Spirit
recharge the enchantment as the wearer kills their
enemies in combat.
LERMUization
Convention Book: Void Engineers (Revised) page 87
Dimensional Science 5, Life 5
The Living Entity Reality Modulator Unit (LERMU)
protects people from the Deep Universe, including
Void Adaptation, vacuum and cosmic radiation. A
LERMU no longer needs to eat or breathe, absorbing
energy from ambient radiation. A LERMU can use their
feet as easily as their hands and can see a longer distance
in a much larger part of the light spectrum.
LERMUization requires five successes before
duration and causes three points of permanent paradox.
Lesser Shapechanging
174 Enlightened Grimoire
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 203
Life 4
This allows the Mage to shapeshift into any animal of
roughly similar mass to the Mage. This doesn't give the
Mage any experience or talent for using the animal's
features, and they will need to practice things like flying
as a bird or catlike balance.
Mutate Form
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 200
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 203
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 171
Life 4
Before, the Mage could alter their own Pattern or
simple Patterns, with Mutate Form, the Mage can make
alterations as large of those of Better Body to any living
creature. This also allows the Mage to transform
themselves into an animal. However, this comes with
the risk of losing themselves to the new form.
The Notorious Vampiric Lawn Chair
Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition page
610
Life 5, Matter 5
Often conjectured, rarely performed, this exceptionally
difficult effect transforms a Vampire into some inanimate
object. To succeed, this requires a massive number
of successes, and even if successful, there are numerous
ways for it to go badly for the Mage.
See Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition
pages 610-611 for details.
One with Beasts
Book of Crafts page 26
Life 4 or 5 or Spirit 4
Powerful mages of the Bata'a can shapeshift, taking
the forms of animals. With Life 4, it is equivalent to
Lesser Shapechanging, Life 5 is Perfect Metamorphosis.
Spirit 4 is a much riskier formulation, where the Mage
invites a spirit to change their form and ride along. This
carries many risks, including the spirit will leave without
returning them to their original form.
Perfect Metamorphosis
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 203
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 171
Life 5
The Mage is now able to transform into an animal
without risk of losing their mind. Additionally, size is
no longer an issue, and the Mage can become any
creature that they desire.
Qayaq's Fish
Dead Magic page 131
Life 3, Matter 3
By carving an animal out of pieces of wood and
putting them together, an Inuit Mage can evoke the
hero Qayaq and change the animal from wood to the
real thing. Successes go to duration and how large an
animal can be managed.
Rokea'ole
Dead Magic 2 page 29
Life 3, Spirit 3
While true sharks are considered good luck by
Polynesian Mages, the Rokea are considered semi-divine
pains in the ass. They often end up in conflict, and this
rote allows the Mage to force the Rokea into its breed
form for ten minutes per success.
Shapechange Curse
Dead Magic 2 page 120
Life 5, Mind 4
Similar to Animal Form, it also suppresses the target's
mind, giving them the mind of an animal for the
duration.
Shapeshifter Prison
Order of Reason page 109
Life 4, optional Prime 2
Through a combination of the right elements, mostly
silver, this effect allows the creation of a prison that
prevents shape-shifts from changing shape. Three
successes are required to start the effect, and shapeshifting
requires a Stamina + Primal Urge roll with more
successes than the remainder for a natural shapeshifter,
or on an Arete roll from a Mage. With Prime, the effect
deals damage to any shapeshifter that touches them
based on the number of successes more than three
rolled at creation.
Transformations 175
Shapeshifting
Technocracy: Progenitors page 40
Life 5
The Progenitor can manipulate their body fully,
changing their shape into any living thing they desire.
Storm of Crows
Infernalism: The Path of Screams page 89
Life 5, Correspondence 3, Prime 2, Mind 1
When cornered, powerful Infernalists have been
known to be able to transform into a flock of crows, a
swarm of rats or another collection of smaller animals,
including insects. This effect allows them to do that,
splitting their consciousness among all the creatures.
Should one of them be caught, it can be disintegrated
by the Mage, though a quick opponent may be able to
use it as a correspondence link to the whole of the
Infernalist. This requires some piece of the animal to be
transformed into.
Vulcan's Hammer
Tradition Book: Order of Hermes (Revised) page 67
Life 4, Matter 3, Forces 3, optional Prime 2
It is important for a Hermetic Mage to be capable of
subtlety. Sometimes, however, a Hermetic needs to be
the most blatant person on the planet. The Mage sculpts
a statuette of themselves out of iron-rich clay, inscribing
their True Name onto it ten times, kneading it into the
clay before firing it. With this clay statuette, the Mage
can assume the shape of Vulcan's Hammer, a grossly
vulgar war form made from iron. In this form, the Mage
gets +3 Strength, -2 Dexterity (minimum 1), +4 Stamina,
fails all Social Attribute rolls automatically (other than
intimidation), and anyone who comes into physical
contact with the Mage takes standard Forces damage
from this effect. With Prime 2, the Mage deals
aggravated damage with hand-to-hand attacks.
Warp-Spasm
Dead Magic 2 page 120
Forces 3, Life 4, Prime 3
The Mage's very body warps to make them into a furyfilled
warrior. They get an extra dot in all Physical
Attributes for every two successes and two extra dice of
damage in melee due to emitting extreme heat. If the
Mage maintains this form for longer than a scene, they
must spend a point of Willpower for each extra
duration or else become a mindless berserker.
The Weeping Willow
Book of Crafts page 89
Life 5
This allows a Sister of Hippolyta to transform a
woman, often one who has run out of options, into a
tree, where any tormentor cannot cause her further
pain. Rarely, it has been used on devoted lovers who
suffer due to the Mage's comings and goings.
Wolf Form
Dead Magic 2 page 129
Life 4, Mind 2
As the Mutate Form effect, the Mage transforms into
a wolf. Thanks to the Mind sphere, the Mage maintains
their human consciousness.
Self Improvement
These rotes cause changes to the Mage's body or
mind, improving them for some purpose. They may be
to allow the Mage to survive environments they couldn't
otherwise or making them smarter and stronger. They
can also be supercharging the Mage's body with electricity
so that they can shock their enemies. Mages often
have a strange notion of what counts as an "improvement."
Adaptation
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 44
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page 40
Life 2 or 3, optional Forces 2
The Ahl-i-Batin have learned how to function in
extreme environments. This allows them to ignore
natural difficulties, such as the heat and dryness of a
desert, and even to breathe underwater, though that
requires the Life 3 version. With Forces, even stronger
than normal desert heat or cold, or deep-water pressure,
can be withstood.
Adrenal Rush
Book of Shadows page 143
176 Enlightened Grimoire
Life 3, Prime 2
By playing an intense video game, a Virtual Adept can
get a rush of adrenaline and make other slight changes
to their system, refreshing them and giving them a boost
of energy. This can help fight off poisons and viruses,
gain dots of Stamina, Strength or Alertness, and of
course, skip the need for sleep.
Advanced Therapies
Convention Book: Syndicate (Revised) page 72
Life 3
This Procedure produces the same effects as Better
Body (increased physical attributes and appearance in
particular) but requires long-term planning and is
restricted to what is possible naturally for humans to
accomplish or have. Over at least four weeks, the
Syndicate agent pursues a regimen of two hours of
exercise, drug therapy and minor surgery every day, and
at the end of this period they can spend successes on
Attributes and duration, though permanency is
impossible without spending Experience Points.
Battery Man
Tradition Book: Sons of Ether (First Edition) page 64
Life 4, Forces 2
This rote allows the Etherite to store electricity in
their body for later use, including powering objects,
dramatic effect, and electrocuting a target (for damage
based on number of successes on this rote in the first
place).
If this energy is not discharged within an hour,
however, the Etherite takes one health level of damage
per success.
Better Body
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 199
Technocracy: Progenitors page 43 (as Delete/Insert/Alter
Gene)
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 202
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 171
Life 3
Better Body allows the Mage to make significant
alterations to themselves, including increasing physical
attributes, appearance, growing claws or gills, natural
armor, etc.
Biochemical Regulation
Transformations 177
Technocracy: Progenitors page 44
Life 3
The Progenitor can alter the biochemistry of the body.
Among other things, the Progenitor can now speed
healing, enhance Physical Attributes, increase the time
someone can hold their breath, deoxygenate blood,
inhibit clotting, or cause general cellular degeneration.
Bio-Luminescence
Tradition Book: Sons of Ether (First Edition) page 64
Forces 3, Life 3
With this rote, an Etherite can make themselves glow
in the dark. Each success causes them to glow brighter
and in a larger area. It may be concentrated onto certain
parts of the body.
Brain Boost
Digital Web 2.0 page 114
Mind 1
This is the Mental equivalent of Better Body, allowing
the increase of Mental Attributes.
Chakra Influence
Dead Magic 2 page 80
Life 3 or Mind 3 or Prime 3
In Traditional Tantric practice, there are seven
chakras located in the body. Each of them can be
affected by one or more of Life, Mind and Prime. This
rote allows the Mage to control both their own chakras
and those of others.
Genitals Life or Mind
Stomach Life or Mind
Sternum Life
Heart Life or Mind
Throat Life
Third Eye Life
Top of Head Prime
Crocodile Blood
Hidden Lore page 53
Life 4, Matter 2
This procedure alters the Technocrat's blood
chemistry to allow them to hold their breath for an hour
per success when calm and still or a minute per success
during intense action.
Go Ti Ta
Dragons of the East page 68
Life 4, Spirit 4
178 Enlightened Grimoire
The Wu-Keng have very few combat-oriented rotes.
This is one of them. It derives from a fertility ritual
where combatants spar with deer antlers. By inscribing
a deer on an oracle of bone, then casting it into a fire,
the Mage gains the benefits of Better Body along with
access to one spirit's gifts. Though usually the Mage will
only wear horned headgear, sometimes they will in fact
grow horns from this rote.
Mele Lapa'au
Book of Crafts page 73
Life 2, 3 or 4
This rote was developed by the wayfinders of the Kopa
Loei so that they could adapt for the elements or make
other changes to themselves. They do so by invoking
different gods for different effects:
• Komo-ho'ali'I, Kane or Kanaloa - breathe water
• Pele - withstand fire
• Kane or Lono - withstand cold
• Kane - heal injuries
• Maui - change appearance
• Hina - increase potency/fertility
• Ku - toughen skin
Life 2 suffices for healing and potency, 3 for the rest,
and one more is needed to pass the effect to someone
else.
Multi-tasking
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 205
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 209
Mind 1
This allows the Mage to do multiple things at a time
without having to split their attention. Only mundane
tasks can be done, and they cannot conflict (so
programming and talking on the phone are fine but
listening to multiple songs simultaneously is not). This
does not permit more than one magickal effect to be
used, nor more than one Willpower point to be spent.
Nanotech Integration
Technocracy: Progenitors page 45 (as Nanotech Life Support)
Convention Book: Progenitors (Revised) page 74
Life 4, Matter 2, Prime 5
This Procedure, from collaboration with Iteration X,
injects nanotech into the subject to make them more
resilient. The recipient gains three dots of Stamina and
regenerates a health level every turn. They also have
immunity to mundane drugs, diseases and poisons,
whether they like it or not. Only a Master of Life,
Entropy or Matter can destroy the nanobots without
otherwise harming the recipient.
Our Enemies are Delicious
Dead Magic page 76
Life 3, Spirit 3
If a Mage sacrifices a person, they can ensure that
anyone who eats the flesh will have their Physical
Attributes increased by one and their Social Attributes
decreased by one for the duration of the effect. Each day
after, one Physical dot gained is lost and one social dot
is regained.
Positronic Brain
Technocracy: Iteration X page 48
Mind 1
Each success adds one dot to any Mental Attribute for
the duration.
Simple Biochemical Manipulation
Technocracy: Progenitors page 43
Life 2
The Pharmacopeist can manipulate a substance's
effects on a Pattern, for instance making medication
work faster or slower, and increasing or decreasing its
effectiveness.
Strength of the Earth
Tradition Book: Verbena (Revised) page 68
Life 3
By drawing on the Earth itself as a source, the
Verbena can increase their Strength, one dot per
Transformations 179
success, so long as the Verbena is in contact with the
ground.
Survivor's Charm
Mage: The Sorcerer's Crusade page 271
Life 2 or 3
This rote hardens the user against the elements,
making is easy to survive in extreme environments and
gaining a resistance to freezing cold, the intense heat
and to minor burns. With Life 3, this protection can be
given to others.
Talons
Book of Shadows page 146
Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition page 609
Life 3 or 4, optional Matter 2, optional Prime 2
This rote causes the Mage to grow claws that are as
hard as steel. They do Strength + 2 aggravated damage,
and last for two turns per success. Each successful strike
costs on Quintessence.
Thick Skin
Orphan's Survival Guide page 126
Life 2 or 3
The basic version protects the Mage from extreme
environments, while the stronger version hardens the
Mage and allows them to soak Aggravated damage.
Titan's Power
Mage: The Sorcerer's Crusade page 273
Life 3 or 4
Allows the Mage to temporarily gain dots in Strength,
Dexterity, Stamina and/or Appearance.
Tumo
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (Revised) page 70
Life 2, optional Forces 2
This allows Akashics to endure extremes of heat and
cold. With Life alone, heat well outside of the comfort
zone of most humans is no issue. With Forces added in,
even heat and code that would hurt a normal person
(such as the center of a bonfire or the Antarctic) is
comfortable: each success reduces the damage by two
levels.
180 Enlightened Grimoire
Uncanny Influence
Sometimes, Mages exert an influence over those
around them beyond what mundane methods are capable
of. Mind control is the bluntest form of this, but
most Mages have a much lighter touch. Another dramatic
example is Room 101 of the New World Order,
where Mages are taken and have their wills broken
down in an attempt to turn them into Technocrats.
This section starts with emotional manipulation: Anger
and Calm, Fear and Intimidation, Seduction and
Other Emotions can all be instilled directly. Beyond
that, Animal Control can be performed. Mages can
also control the Attention something or someone gets
and improve the Cooperation among groups. They can
also cause Disruption of people's thoughts and plans.
The heavier duty techniques include investigating peoples'
Dreams, casting Illusions, altering Memory, and,
of course, direct Mind Control.
Anger and Calm
Mages can cause people to become unnaturally angry
or unnaturally calm, either starting or preventing fights
as desired.
Apathy
World of Darkness: Outcasts page 91
Entropy 3, Mind 2
This rote causes the target to become depressed,
suddenly lacking energy and unable to focus.
Olive Branch
Order of Reason page 79
Mind 2
This rote allows the user to act as a calmer head and
try to prevent a fight from breaking out.
Pass Calmly
Hidden Lore page 13
Mind 2, Correspondence 2, Life 1
Although of no use in combat, many Akashics find
this rote useful to calm all Sleepers sufficiently close to
them, within about two yards per success.
Peace of Buddha
Book of Shadows page 138
Mind 2
182 Enlightened Grimoire
The Akashic can force a feeling of peace into their
target's mind. The number of successes must match or
exceed the opponent's Willpower, and if so, the target
will lose their will to do harm (to anyone) for the
duration.
Peace Rune
Dead Magic 2 page 99
Mind 2 or 4;
Entropy 5
The user of this rune calms hearts and minds, directly
or by destroying the concept of conflict in the minds of
those involved.
Rat's Rage/Lost Cousin
Guide to the Technocracy page 214
Mind 2, Life 2
By tagging a target with a "scent", the Technocrat can
cause a group to either turn on a subject or embrace
them as a friend.
Stoicism
Dead Magic page 108
Mind 1, Matter 1
This rote allows the Mage to enforce a strong
detachment, viewing the world dispassionately and even
themselves as an observer. If they stay motionless, the
Mind even becomes like a stone and Torture becomes
useless. With at least three successes, the Mage may act
deliberately, devoid of emotion or empathy. For the
duration, the Mage may not spend Willpower points
and all rolls to dodge attacks and all social rolls have +3
difficulty.
Fear and Intimidation
Another way that Mages prevent fights is by terrifying
their opponent in advance. By instilling a deep fear in
their target, they can cause them to flee or capitulate, or
to overestimate how competent at fighting the Mage is.
Uncanny Influence 183
Abh-t-ab, "Biting the Heart"
Book of Crafts page 57
Correspondence 2, Mind 2
The Hem-Ka Sobk causes the subject to experience a
deep and acute fear response, usually resulting in them
fleeing or freezing.
The Argument of Princes
Artisan's Handbook page 50
Mind 2
Identical to Show of Force, but requires a weapon be
used with intent to terrify and intimidate.
Capiche?
Fallen Tower: Las Vegas page 119
Mind 2
This rote gives a difficulty bonus to attempts to
intimidate people when mimicking the affectations of
mobsters.
Hoodoo Man's Heartbeat
Book of Crafts page 25
Mind 2 or Spirit 3
This rote allows a Bata'a to intimidate a target. With
Mind, it acts as Subliminal Impulse, twisting the victim's
perceptions to make things seem more sinister or
intimidating. The Spirit version calls upon a spirit to
torment them, though this is less reliable than the Mind
version.
Primal Dread
Tradition Book: Celestial Chorus (Revised) page 57
Mind 2, optional Prime 2
The Mage in instill fear in a target, enhancing
whatever fear might already be there. If none is present,
Prime 2 is needed to create it from quintessence.
Show of Force
Order of Reason page 79
Mind 2
This rote allows the user to attempt to cow the target
into submission through intimidation.
Seduction
Many Mages, however, are lovers, not fighters, and so
focus on improving their ability to seduce others. By
bringing people into their personal orbits, they're able
to get their way and accomplish their goals more easily.
Bewitchment
The Swashbuckler's Handbook page 90
Mind 2 or 3, optional Entropy 2 or Life 3
Using speech, manners, costume, cosmetics and
human nature, the Mage enchants their target, seducing
them. For long-term effects, this requires Mind 3,
Entropy can be used to help wear down defenses and
Life can be used to prompt bursts of animal passion.
Charm Rune
Dead Magic 2 page 101
Mind 2
This rune gives the Mage an aura of friendliness and
charm, causing others to think well of them and making
most Social rolls that are non-confrontational to
become easier.
Exalted Desire
Hidden Lore page 50
Life 4, Mind 2, Prime 2
This effect causes the target to experience an unusual
high from something pleasurable. The Nephandus can
use this to create an addiction, weakening the target and
making them easier to manipulate later.
Kuoha (The Passion Prayer)
Dead Magic 2 page 27
Correspondence 3, Life 2, Mind 2
By wearing only fragrant floral leis and beating out a
primal rhythm on a drum, a Polynesian Mage can incite
passion in a person of their choosing.
Lecherous Kiss
Book of Shadows page 142
Mind 2, Life 2, Prime 2
This Hollow One rote is designed for seduction.
Mind puts the target into a sexually receptive state of
mind, and Life triggers the appropriate parts of the
endocrine system, both of which are fueled by Prime.
Romance
Order of Reason page 78
Mind 2
Especially useful for groups like the High Guild and
the Ksirafai, this rote mates the Mage more attractive
and suave to others, decreasing the difficulty of attempts
at seduction.
Taliesin's Song
Tradition Book: Verbena (First Edition) page 64
Life 3, Mind 2
By altering their vocal chords to make their singing
enchanting, a Verbena can influence others with a song.
This adds automatic successes to the Verbena's social
rolls against a target for the duration.
Other Emotions
Mages aren't limited in the emotional palette that
they can work with. They can instill any emotion that
they choose in their targets. These rotes are either diverse
and able to manage several different emotions or
else manage emotions other than those already listed.
Be Cool
Book of Shadows page 141
Mind 2
The Hollow Ones devote a lot of time to appearing
cool, and this rote is a shortcut. With it, the people
around the Mage get a general impression of coolness
from them.
Branding
Convention Book: Syndicate (Revised) page 72
Mind 2
It's become a very common shortcut in the mind to
associate emotions with brands. The Syndicate agent
Uncanny Influence 185
can tailor their appearance and mannerisms to match a
brand, and thus, influence the emotions of the target in
an appropriate way.
Comp Me
Fallen Tower: Las Vegas pas 119
Entropy 3 or Mind 2
In most casinos, everyone assumes that if you're there,
you're gambling. So, to keep people there, the House
will comp small things. With this rote, a Mage in a
casino either aligns with the in-place system (Entropy)
or else gives the strong impression of gambling (Mind),
allowing the Mage to take advantage of the system of
comps.
Cool Glamour
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 62
Mind 2
Hollow Ones often put a lot of work into their
appearance. With this rote, when they do so, they get
the ability to roll Appearance + Intimidation to come
across is cool, self-confident and powerful, making
others want to treat them with respect.
Empathic Projection
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 176
Mind 2
The Mage can project an emotion into a target,
forcing them to feel it with an intensity proportional to
how many successes are achieved.
Gatha
Dragons of the East page 51
Mind 2, Prime 2
An Akashic poet can weave emotion into every
character of the work. The writer chooses an emotion
to be invoked in anyone who reads or hears the poem.
The Golden Apple
Blood Treachery page 91
Matter 2, Mind 2 or Matter 2, Mind 3, Prime 3
Hermetics use this rote to imbue an object with a near
irresistible pull. The weaker version merely draws
attention towards the imbued object, causing those who
see it to fixate on it with whatever emotion the Hermetic
chooses to create. The stronger version uses the victim's
own emotions as fuel, creating a viscous cycle.
Grand Style
Tradition Book: Cult of Ecstasy (Revised) page 71
Mind 2, Matter 1 or Forces 1, optional Prime 2
Through some form of art, a Cultist can alter moods
on a mass scale. Though live music can be used (Forces),
physical art (Matter) is much more common. The effect
causes those who perceive the art to experience a certain
emotion. With Prime 2, it can create the emotion,
otherwise it only emphasizes that which is already there.
High Rhetoric
Artisan's Handbook page 51
Mind 2
This effect allows the user to give a speech and convey
an emotion to an audience. Although it can sway an
audience, it cannot cause large changes in ideology, and
pushing too hard gives the listeners Willpower rolls to
resist.
Hope's Birth
Tradition Book: Celestial Chorus (Revised) page 57
Mind 2, optional Prime 2
The Mage can fan the flames of hope so long as there
is any present, either in themselves or those around
them. With Prime 2, all hope can be lost, and the rote
will create it wholly.
Incitation
Order of Reason page 79
Mind 2
This rote allows the user to taunt a target to try to
goad them into a fight.
Initiation
Order of Reason page 90
Mind 3, Prime 2
Initiation rites are used on new members of many
organizations, most notable the Order of Reason and
the Technocracy. This rite is more effective the more
elaborate it is and ties the membership into the target's
identity. This allows the user of the ritual to instill one
idea or emotional reaction to the target, most often
loyalty to the organization and its ideals.
The Look/The Word
Technocracy: Syndicate page 46
Mind 2
Through a well-timed look or saying just the right
word, a Syndicate agent can create an impression in the
target's mind, ensuring that a message is remembered.
Loving Cup
Order of Reason page 91
Life 3, Mind 2
By sharing a drink with the target, the Mage can
influence the target's emotional state. Like Ultimate
Argument mechanically, this requires not only that a
drink be shared, but that it be alcoholic, and only one
roll is permitted per drink.
Mood Swing/Communion
Tradition Book: Cult of Ecstasy (First Edition) page 65
Mind 2, optional Correspondence 2
Spreads sensations and emotions to one person
nearby per success. With Correspondence (the version
called Communion), the person doesn't need to be
nearby.
Motivational Speaking
Guide to the Technocracy page 215
Mind 2 or 3, Prime 2
This Procedure allows a Technocrat to persuade a
group of people without a bias about something. With
Mind 2, they can evoke an emotion and with 3 a false
idea. The total number of successes must be at least
twice the average Willpower of the crowd.
Petals of Love
Book of Crafts page 88
Mind 2
The Sisters of Hippolyta brew a potion from rose
petals that strengthens their emotional ties to each
other.
Physiological Emotion Control
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 200
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 203
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 171
Uncanny Influence 187
Life 4
An Adept of Life can alter a target's emotional state
by directly influencing the biochemistry of their brain.
Scent of Control
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 63
Life 3, Mind 2
Hollow Ones using this rote alter their sweat to exude
an emotional trigger, trying to push the mental state of
someone near them. This can range from "desire me"
to "protect me" to "leave me alone," but if it is a
completely unbidden thought, it won't go unnoticed.
Shameful Outburst
Order of Reason page 78
Mind 2
The Mage uses carefully chosen words and nonverbal
cues to maneuver a target into an embarrassing outburst
of some sort. Difficult to use against the Awakened or
those with high Willpower, but capable of causing social
devastation...or the revelation of secrets in an emotional
moment...in those that if effects.
Social Science
Technocracy: Iteration X page 48
Mind 2
The Iterator can use the results of social sciences to
depress the target, such as indicating that their IQ is
low. Each success reduces the target's Willpower by one
for the duration and is resisted with a Willpower roll at
difficulty 7.
Strains of Laughter, Sleep and Sorrow
Tradition Book: Verbena (Revised) page 67
Mind 2
The Bards and Skalds of the Verbena know how to
use music and story to influence those who listen to it.
This rote uses music to cause an audience to feel some
emotion of the Verbena's choosing. Up to three
successes causes them to feel it, more than that and they
feel it intensely enough to act on it. Spending a point of
temporary Willpower will allow them to ignore the
Effect briefly, but it will return if the Mage keeps
performing.
Subtle Persuasion
188 Enlightened Grimoire
Order of Reason page 90
Mind 2, Prime 2
Related to the Craft Tome effect, but rather than
conveying a hidden meaning only to those who know
how to read it, this effect weaves a subtle logic through
the work that will persuade the reader of its correctness.
Strong-willed readers are harder to persuade, but those
who fail a Willpower roll vs. the author's successes in
crafting the work are brought to feel an emotion that
the author chose at the creation of the object.
Witchwind
Infernalism: The Path of Screams page 87
Forces 5, Mind 3, Prime 2
The witchwind is summoned by tying thirteen knots
into a rope, submerging it in the blood of a black cat
and three dead murderers, and then untying the knots.
This causes a storm to blow through the area, and
wherever the storm passes, the people fall victim to their
darkest impulses. To summon it requires at least 15
successes, and if caught in it, anyone needs to make a
Willpower roll at difficulty 7 to resist any temptation
that they encounter.
Animal Control
By controlling animals, a Mage can often make their
lives easier or the lives of their enemies harder. Easier
by making sure that animals do what they want, often
including reconnaissance. Harder for their enemies by
sending swarms of animals to give them problems.
Animal Possession
The Spirit Ways page 92
Mind 4, optional Correspondence 2
Whereas Animal Riding only gives the Mage the
animal's perceptions and limited control, Animal
Possession allows the Mage to take control of the animal
fully.
Animal Riding
The Spirit Ways page 89
Mind 3, optional Correspondence 2
The shaman enters the mind of an animal
(Correspondence is required if not within sensory
range) and shares its perceptions. The shaman has
limited control but must either persuade or overwhelm
the animal to make it do anything obviously dangerous.
Bug Off
Book of Crafts page 74
Life 3, Prime 2
The Kopa Loei who know this rote can create a swarm
of insects to attack a target.
Horsemaster's Bidding
The Swashbuckler's Handbook page 91
Mind 2
This rote allows the Mage to force a horse to do what
they want. In the case of something the horse strongly
doesn't want to do, it gets a willpower roll to succeed.
Mono Kahea 'Ai (Shark Call)
Dead Magic 2 page 29
Correspondence 3, Mind 2
With this rote, a Mage can summon a shark from the
surrounding waters to come as close to the Mage as it is
possible for them to safely swim.
Ratstorm
Orphan's Survival Guide page 125
Correspondence 2, Life 2, Mind 2
With this rote, this Mage can call a swarm of small
animals to attack a target, with whichever sorts of
animals are common in the area, such as rats in a city
and dogs in a desert.
Sedna's Blessing
Dead Magic page 131
Correspondence 2, Mind 2
An Inuit shaman takes advantage of the gift of the
woman Sedna, who created seals and whales. She is said
to live at the bottom of the ocean after a failed rescue
attempt from the husband she was tricked into
marrying. The shaman dives into the sea and "combs
her hair," the brambles and kelp of the ocean floor. This
sends out a wave of calm, summoning seals and whales
to the Mage.
Sing to the Whales
Uncanny Influence 189
Dead Magic page 132
Mind 2
Some Inuit fisherman sing songs reminiscent of whale
songs to draw the whales near. By observing some sort
of taboo for a week (along with anyone who is to help
in the capture), the Mage can draw whales in, making
them much easier to hunt.
Attention
Mages, particularly the New World Order, can make
things gather attention. The rotes in this section draw
the eyes of everyone to the target, whether it's a person
or a piece of information.
Divine Aura
Mage: The Sorcerer's Crusade page 270
Mind 2
This rote creates an aura around the Mage that draws
all eyes to them.
Fifteen Minutes
Convention Book: New World Order (Revised) page 85
Data 3, Mind 2
The Agent chooses a target and temporarily gives
them Fame for the duration, at one day per success. The
Fame is usually due to something like a doctored video
spreading across social media.
Going Viral
Convention Book: New World Order (Revised) page 86
Data 4, Mind 3
Pushes an idea or fact into the public eye. Similar to
Fifteen Minutes, this fact is suddenly everywhere, in
videos, on the news, it's almost unavoidable, no matter
how trivial it actually is.
Cooperation
Mages, but particularly the Syndicate, can smooth out
difficulties and ensure that large groups can work together
more effectively. These cooperation tasks are like
the ones in Enhanced Combat, but focused on less violent
tasks.
An Uncompromising Commitment to Excellence
Convention Book: Syndicate (Revised) page 82
Life 3, Mind 4, Primal Utility 3
Targets of this procedure work harder than they've
ever worked before. Successes are spent first up to the
highest willpower of all targets, then to duration. Each
success after that decreases difficulties in a single
Attribute + Ability pool by 1. For every hour spent in
this state, each target takes a level of aggravated damage
from the physical and psychological strain of working
beyond capacity. If one of the workers dies, the
Technocrat gains 5 points of Primal Energy.
Targets can roll Willpower at difficulty 8 to resist each
time they suffer damage or are asked to do something
blatantly self-destructive or Nature-defying. Successes
accumulate until they have more successes than the
highest Willpower, at which point they break free.
Sleepers must spend a Willpower point each roll, but do
not gain an automatic success.
Coordination
Guide to the Technocracy page 206
Correspondence 3, Mind 3
By giving every agent on a team a camera, a
microphone and an earpiece, a coordinator back at a
safe house can see and hear everything that the group
does and give orders in real time to make sure that the
team is working together even when out of sight.
Karoshi
Technocracy: Syndicate page 46
Life 2, Mind 1, or Life 3, Mind 2
It is possible to work so hard that a person puts their
life at risk. This rote allows a Syndicate agent to either
do so themselves (lesser version) or to lead others
(greater version), and each success lets them go without
rest or refreshment for a day.
Workflow
Convention Book: Syndicate (Revised) page 75
190 Enlightened Grimoire
Mind 2, Time 3
Successes are divided among the number of people in
the team, the duration of the work, and the power of
the procedure. Workflow decreases the time between
mundane rolls on a project significantly, dividing it by
the number of successes put into power.
Disruption
The rotes in this section cause the targets to be unable
to focus or complete thoughts.
Delion's Haze
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 222
Entropy 2, Time 3
By randomly altering time around the victim, the
Mage disrupts their concentration so badly that all their
dice pools for the duration are bounded by their
Willpower.
Destroy Thought
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 193
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 195
Entropy 5
The target has a rational thought or feeling degraded
until it is gone. It will often appear as though they have
rationalized themselves out of it.
Downward Spiral
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page 42
Mind 3, optional Correspondence 2
Reserved for their reviled enemies, this rote inserts a
phrase into the target's mind. This phrase repeats and
echoes, bringing up increasing shame, insecurity and
self-loathing to the point where it can incapacitate the
target, or lead to suicide.
Magdeline's Dynamic Mind
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 222
Entropy 2, Mind 3
Causes thoughts in the target to become random and
incoherent.
The Trip
Book of Shadows page 410
Mind 4, Correspondence 2, Time 2, Entropy 1
The Cultist can use this rote to seize control of a
target's mind and cause them to relive some moment of
their lives where they were confused, deluded or had
significant misconceptions. Correspondence and Time
allow the Cultist to see the incident involved directly,
both confusing the target and giving the Cultist valuable
information.
Dreams
Oneiromancy is the magick of manipulating and interpreting
dreams. Some Mages specialize in it, but
fairly few pick up much of it. Those that do, however,
can use these rotes to get information from the dreamer,
manage their dreams or to harm people in their sleep.
Dream Drama
Tradition Book: Order of Hermes (First Edition) page 64
Forces 2, Mind 3, optional Correspondence 2
This rote allows the Hermetic to create an illusion of
light and sound that will let them watch the dreams of
someone who is asleep. If they are not present,
Correspondence is required.
Dream Play
Tradition Book: Hollow Ones (Revised) page 67
Mind 3, Prime 2, Time 2
A Hollow One who works with Dreams can design a
scenario, down to intricate details, and then causing a
target to experience it as a dream. The user of this rote
acts as the director, and in the dream, this takes the
form of a play with substantial audience participation
from the targets of the effect.
Nightmare Dance
Tradition Book: Dreamspeakers (First Edition) page 67
Spirit 2 or Mind 3, optional Correspondence 2
The Dreamspeaker sends disturbing dreams to
someone that they don't like. The Mind version taps
directly into the target's fears, whereas the Spirit version
calls a spirit such as Night Terror to do it for the Mage.
Uncanny Influence 191
Illusions
The art of illusion is the art of making people see
things that aren't there or see things that are there as
something other than what they are.
Delirium
Orphan's Survival Guide page 128
Mind 3, optional Forces 2
The Mage gets themselves into a hallucinatory state,
whether through meditation, drugs or other methods,
and then sends the hallucinations to a target. Successes
determine number of targets as per the following table.
With a light-show and music, Forces can be added to
gain a success, making it easier to affect groups.
Successes People Affected
1-3 One or two
4-6 Up to ten
7-10 Everyone nearby
11-15 Small club
16+ Large club
Frame Up
Hidden Lore page 49
Mind 3, Matter 3 or Life 3
The Nephandus can create simple illusions to create
among the victim's friends a feeling that they are guilty
of something. Matter is used to make physical evidence
seem incriminating, Life is used for things such as
minor aches, cheeks that have been slapped, or the
symptoms of pregnancy.
Holographic Projector
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (First Edition) page 62
Correspondence 2, Forces 3, Mind 3, Prime 2
With this rote, a Virtual Adept can project a
holograph of themselves. Forces creates the visual and
auditory effects and Mind creates other sensory inputs.
IFF
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (Revised) page 62
Correspondence 2, Forces 2
Named to reference both "if and only if" (as in, "if
and only if you are badly outnumbered") and "identify
friend or foe", this Virtual Adept rote copies the image
of a suitable enemy and uses Forces to make the Virtual
Adept look and sound identical to them. For each
success, subtract one from the target's attack roll. This
also cancels any previous targeting.
Imaginary Friend
Technocracy: New World Order page 49
Mind 4, Prime 2
The subject of this procedure is programmed to see
and hear a fabricated persona that no one else can.
Painting the War Dance
Dead Magic page 29
Matter 2, Mind 2 or Time 2
Using hand-mixed paints to draw images of a story,
the Mage channels their own thoughts (Mind) or the
past (Time) and the images begin to move, playing out
the story being told.
Memory
Memory manipulation is a very serious matter, and
important enough that Mages have developed quite a
few methods for doing it in various ways. Some Mages,
mostly the Technocracy but not exclusively, developed
methods for completely altering the contents of a target's
memories. Others merely use those memories to
accomplish other things or scan them for information.
Behavior Modification Device
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 48
Entropy 3, Mind 4
This Procedure allows the Void Engineers to alter and
delete selected memories in the subject.
False Witness
The Swashbuckler's Handbook page 93
Mind 3
Creates a false memory in the target.
High Memory
192 Enlightened Grimoire
Digital Web page 99
Mind 3, Entropy 2
This rote takes some information and shuffles it
together with random noise in the Mage's mind,
rendering it much harder to detect.
Manipulate Memories
Technocracy: Progenitors page 42
Mind 4
The Progenitor can block certain memories with this
procedure, often used to let a newly activated clone not
remember their death.
Manipulate Memory
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 207
Technocracy: New World Order page 47 (as Edit Memory)
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 211
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 178
Mind 4
With Manipulate Memory, the Mage can alter the
memories of the target.
Move to Clone
Technocracy: Progenitors page 42
Mind 5
The Progenitor can transfer their consciousness to a
clone body. Note that this is more than just a
duplication of the memories, but continuity of
experience.
Nostalgia
Tradition Book: Cult of Ecstasy (Revised) page 71
Mind 2 or 3, Time 3, optional Life 2
A Cultist can pull up a memory of some
overwhelming stimulus from the target's past. The
Cultist can determine a positive or a negative
association, but often doesn't have control over exactly
what. With Life 2, the target will feel the sensation
rather than just remembering it, and with Mind 3 it can
be tied to a trigger, letting the Cultist encourage or
discourage specific behaviors.
Plausible Denial
Technocracy: New World Order page 46
Uncanny Influence 193
Mind 3
The New World Order Agent can use this Procedure
to induce memory blackouts in a target, forcing them to
forget that they witnessed something.
Probe Thoughts
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 207
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 210
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 177
Mind 3
This rote allows a Mind Mage to forcibly dig into a
target's mind to pull up memories or to read the
subconscious.
Scan Memories
Technocracy: Progenitors page 42
Mind 2
This procedure scans the memories of the target,
determining if there is any damage to them, and records
it to use as a template for memory transfer to a new
body.
Transfer Memories
Technocracy: Progenitors page 42
Mind 3
This procedure transfers memories from one
individual into a blank mind.
Worm
Tradition Book: Virtual Adepts (Revised) page 65
Mind 4, optional Entropy 2 or Time 2
This Cypherpunk rote is designed to erase sensitive
information from the Virtual Adept's brain, without
damaging personality, Sphere knowledge or general
skills. Mind 4 is all that is needed to guarantee erasure,
but Entropy or Time is used to make sure nothing else
is erased by accident.
Mind Control
Mind control is one of the most devastating things
that a Mage can do to another person. Someone manipulated
to this extent may never recover from it psychologically.
That said, Mages just can't seem to stop
doing it. From the Technocracy's Room 101 which can
completely overwrite a prisoner's personality and paradigm,
to the Chorus using versions of mind control to
win arguments.
Alter Paradigm
Technocracy: New World Order page 51
Mind 5, Entropy 5
Through extensive indoctrination and torture, the
New World Order can break down the basic beliefs a
target has about how the world works and build up a
new paradigm inside them, almost always the
Technocratic worldview.
The Blissful Disciple
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 226
Mind 4, Forces 3, Prime 2
This rote is used to shock a target (see Discharge
Static) whenever they think a certain thought.
Consuming Thought
Hidden Lore page 13
Mind 3, Prime 2
This rote creates a thought in the target's mind, and
forces it constantly to the surface, so that it is the only
thing that the target can think about, without an act of
Willpower.
Create Drone
Technocracy: New World Order page 44
Entropy 5
When Mind Control and Social Conditioning and
even Indoctrination can't break a target, some New
World Order Agents will instead degrade their minds to
the point where they are only capable of the simplest
tasks.
Create Mind
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 179
Mind 5
With this effect, the Master of Mind can create an
entirely new conscious mind. This can be used to create
194 Enlightened Grimoire
artificial intelligences in computer systems, to grant
intelligence to animals, or to give an "empty" body a
consciousness.
Deprocessing
Technocracy: Void Engineers page 45 (as Adjust
Conditioning)
Convention Book: Void Engineers (Revised) page 85
Mind 4, optional Prime 2
This Procedure removes standard Technocratic
Conditioning, essential for Void Engineers, especially
in other Dimensions. This requires twice as many
successes as the target's Willpower + Conditioning.
With Prime 2, each success acts as a die of
countermagick against any Procedure the subject
attempts that is motivated by Conditioning, including
those that interfere with the Deprocessing.
Destructive Paranoia
Technocracy: New World Order page 50
Mind 4, Entropy 2, Prime 2
After extended indoctrination (at least a week), the
subject believes that they are dramatically more
persecuted than they actually are, leading to paranoid
delusions and further complications of mental illness.
Hypernarrative Influence
Convention Book: Syndicate (Revised) page 74
Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition page 603
Mind 3, optional Entropy 2
An effective agent who understands common
narratives in pop culture can take advantage of a
situation and force those nearby to play along. By
grabbing a hostage, can force a hostile to demand they
"let the girl go" rather than shooting, can trick a group
into splitting up to "cover more ground," etc.
Impulse Purchase
Guide to the Technocracy page 215
Mind 3 or Mind 2, Prime 2
There are two versions of this procedure, both of
which make use of Enlightened Marketing techniques
to persuade people to buy things that they don't need.
With Mind 3, it can cause a single person to buy
something at a store. With Mind 2 and Prime 2, it can
be used to make a store more conducive to impulse
purchases in general.
Internal Obligation
Tradition Book: Akashic Brotherhood (Revised) page 68
Mind 4 or Life 3, Prime 3, Time 4
Using acupuncture, the Akashic ensures that the
target will experience a specific response whenever a
certain event occurs. The target must do what the
conditions require whenever this event occurs, whether
it's controlling actions and memories through Mind or
directly manipulating the body with Life.
Maikai (The Seaward Pull)
Dead Magic 2 page 28
Mind 3
The target of this effect gains the urgent need to be in
the ocean, swimming as far out as possible. Without aid
of some sort, this will result on most targets drowning.
Manchurian Candidate
Technocracy: New World Order page 47
Mind 5
With this level of Mastery, a New World Order Agent
can program a target to perform a series of actions on
command.
Mind Rune
Dead Magic 2 page 101
Mind 4
With the Mind Rune, a Mage can take control of
another person's mind, as with Possession or
Manipulate Memories.
Morpheus's Kiss
The Swashbuckler's Handbook page 93
Life 2, Mind 2
Puts a target who wants to sleep, at least a little bit, to
sleep.
Nervous Control
Technocracy: Progenitors page 44 (as Control Nerves)
Convention Book: Progenitors (Revised) page 74
Forces 3, Life 3
Uncanny Influence 195
With a controlled electronic pulse guided by intimate
knowledge of neurology, the Progenitor may compel
someone to repeat an action, to feel intense pain, or to
feel no pain whatsoever.
Possession
Mage: The Ascension First Edition page 207
Mage: The Ascension Second Edition page 210
Mage: The Ascension Revised page 178
Mind 4
This rote allows the Mage to exert direct control over
the target, forcing them to behave in a way according to
the Mage's will.
Processing
Convention Book: New World Order (Revised) page 86
Mind 5, Prime 2
Using extreme situations: loud music, straps,
holographic projectors, acupuncture needles, etc. (for
instance, as in A Clockwork Orange), over the course of a
week a New World Order agent can completely rebuild
the mind of the target, bending it to their will. Not
being a blank slate, this leads to massive psychological
scarring, a high suicide rate and other adverse side
effects. Furthermore, in times of massive stress, the
player of such a character can spend a point of
Willpower for the character to return to their original
personality for a single turn, though they cannot act
against the Union.
Programming
Guide to the Technocracy page 214
Mind 3
Through careful effort, a New World Order Agent
can brainwash a person (or a group if they have trained
together). With more successes than the Willpower of
the target (or highest among targets), the Technocrat
can give a one sentence verbal command to their target.
Psychic Intrusion
Technocracy: New World Order page 45
Mind 2
This procedure weakens the resolve of the target of an
interrogation, decreasing the target's temporary
Willpower by one per success.
Purge Thought Crime
Guide to the Technocracy page 215
Mind 3, Prime 3
By Conditioning someone with this Procedure, a
Technocrat can prevent them from thinking along
certain lines, establishing a block. The more detail to be
blocked, the more successes are necessary.
Random Impulse
Book of Shadows page 141
Mind 4, Entropy 2
The target loses control of their mind for a fiveminute
increment per success. The Mage may attempt
to direct their actions, once per success spent on this,
but the target can resist control with Willpower at
difficulty 7. Otherwise, the target's actions are random,
as their mind has been scrambled and invested with
chaotic energy.
Recant
Book of Crafts page 103
Entropy 2, Mind 2
This rote is used by the Knights Templar to stamp out
heresy before it grows too large. If someone is a true
believer in something, this will not work, but it can
channel someone's thoughts down more agreeable
avenues, allowing them to be persuaded away from an
idea they are exploring.
Re-education Mode
Hidden Lore page 53
Mind 4, Time 3, Prime 2
A Technocratic variant on The Moment that
Stretches, the New World Order performs this
procedure on an unwilling victim. They can use it to
paralyze the victim and force them to experience long
stretches of mind-numbing boredom in a much shorter
period of actual time.
See the Light
Tradition Book: Celestial Chorus page 65
Mind 3, Entropy 3 or Entropy 5
With Mind and Entropy, the Mage disrupts the
thoughts of their target, making their reasoning weak
and bringing their insecurities to the fore. With the
196 Enlightened Grimoire
Entropy only version, thoughts are destroyed directly for
the same effect.
Self Possession
Lost Paths: Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani page 91
Mind 4
By repeating in their head, a phrase, mantra, poem or
song that the Taftani feels embodies who they are, they
train their mind to keep it on loop in the back of their
mind, endlessly. This provides protection against
possession and mind-control, allowing this pocket of
the Taftani's confirmed nature to attempt to take
control of any intruder in the Mage's mind.
In effect, the Mage gains Willpower points for the
purpose of fighting off mind control equal to the
number of successes put into strength of the effect, and
the invader is at -3 on all attempts to control the Mage.
Furthermore, the Mage may attempt to counterpossess
any entity that possesses them (as in the
Possession rote) and may do as they wish with the
invader, including holding them prisoner in their mind
or just booting them out.
Sinner's Redemption
Order of Reason page 109
Mind 5
This rote is extremely difficult but has incredible
potential. If successful, the Mage can restructure the
fundamental belief system of the target, changing their
Paradigm, their notions of right and wrong, anything.
Each day, a contested Arete roll at difficulty 9 is made.
If the inquisitor can accumulate more successes than the
target's permanent Willpower, the change is
permanent.
Social Conditioning
Technocracy: New World Order page 46
Guide to the Technocracy page 214
Mind 3, Prime 2
This Procedure allows the New World Order Agent
to increase the Social Conditioning of another
Technocrat. For details, see Mage: The Ascension 20th
Anniversary Edition pages 605-607.
Soul Shaping
World of Darkness: Outcasts page 90
Uncanny Influence 197
Spirit 5, Mind 4, Prime 3
The Hollow One response to things like Room 101,
this rote pushes the soul of the target out of their body,
makes alterations, and returns it. One success can
change their view of a person, five allows them to be
almost completely rewritten, such as turning a
Technomage into a Mystic, or even changing their
Essence.
Temple Gongs
Hidden Lore page 52
Forces 4, Matter 4, Mind 4, Life 3, Prime 2
This rote rings a gong loudly and then transforms
people nearby into monks via Life and Mind
brainwashing.
Ultimate Argument
Order of Reason page 80
Mind 3
With this rote, a Mage can talk almost anyone into
almost anything. With a number of successes equal to
the target's temporary Willpower, an unsuspecting
target can be persuaded. If the target resists, they get to
roll Willpower to defend.
Welcoming the Jester
World of Darkness: Outcasts page 91
Mind 4 or Entropy 2, Mind 2
The Mage causes the target to act in a preposterous
manner, rational thought disappearing for the duration.
The target will then insult anyone who has offended
them and embrace anyone who they find attractive.
Essentially, it removes the target's filters.
Willful Binding
Tradition Book: Verbena (Revised) page 69
Mind 4
Verbena often believe that so long as a person does
no harm, they should be free to do as the will. However,
when it comes to enforcing this on others, they tend to
consider that fair game.
With this rote, the Verbena can give a target a
command and the target is unable to violate this
command. Optionally, spending Willpower would
allow them to overcome the binding for one round.
This command can be as broad or specific as the Mage
chooses.
198 Enlightened Grimoire
Appendix: Expanded
Rules
Dramatic Tension
There is a certain tension between the mechanical
systems of Mage and aspects of the flavor when it comes
to rotes. In Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary
Edition, on page 529 it says that "Rules-wise, a rote is
simply an Effect that your character has used before or
learned from someone else." It provides very brief
systems for learning rotes, but these add a difficulty
without offering up any benefit.
It also indicates that rotes are the tried and true
methods, the deeply researched and practiced spells and
procedures of the Mage world. This suggests that there
should be enough benefit for a character to study under
a Mage who knows a rote that they don't, or to raid an
enemy for their magickal knowledge more precisely
than just books on the Spheres.
The optional rules included in this appendix offer up
systems for rotes to incentivize this behavior. They offer
several possible benefits for learning a rote and will also
encourage characters to develop a signature style, where
there are a set of tricks that they use on a regular basis.
This goes for NPCs as well and gets good results when
combined with careful attention paid to Resonance and
Synergy, adding another dimension to a character's
realization that an old enemy or friend has been where
they are.
Rules
Under these rules, a rote is a carefully honed formula
for an effect that has been tested and established deeply
within a given focus.
To buy rotes, a Mage has a pool of rote points which
can be obtained at a rate of 5 rote points for 1 experience
point. At creation, a character has 10 rote points,
and 3 rote points can be bought for one freebie point,
though no more freebies may be spent on this than the
characters Mentor + Library score, they need to learn
the rotes from somewhere!
Actually, learning a rote requires either a teacher, a
book that contains the rote or substantial time to practice
and refine the effect, almost certainly within a sanctum
(vulgar rotes refined outside of a sanctum should
come with hefty amounts of paradox).
Aside from avoiding the fast-cast penalty, which all
rotes do automatically, the biggest advantage that a rote
has is that, when created, the Mage chooses its primary
200 Enlightened Grimoire
sphere and uses Arete + Sphere to cast the rote, rather
than just Arete, resulting in a larger dice pool and more
powerful magick.
The base cost of learning a rote is the total number of
sphere levels involved in the rote. The final cost of a
rote will also include any mechanical benefits that the
character wishes to build into it, and several options are:
• Improved Casting: -1 difficulty to casting for 3 x New
Level rote points
• Backlash Resistance: +1 difficulty on backlashes for
4 x New Level rote points
• Stabilized: Negate one permanent Paradox from the
rote for 5 x New Level rote points
• Penetration: +1 difficulty on target's countermagick
for 3 x New Level rote points
• Reinforced: One botch die is considered a failure instead
for 4 x New Level rote points
• Strengthened: One automatic success for 5 x New
Level rote points
• Specialized: May reroll 10s for 3 rote points
To define a rote, first a Paradigm, a set of Practices
and a set of Instruments must be chosen. A Mage can
only learn rotes whether they have overlap in at least
one of these things. If the only overlap is at the Paradigm
level, the rote costs three times as much. If only
at the Practice level, twice as much. Rotes are normal
cost if they share instruments with the Mage.
Rote-Only Effects
•
•
•
•
•
Uncanny Influence 201
Next, the precise effect is defined, along with the precise
method for casting it. Sphere levels are determined,
and whether the rote is Vulgar or Coincidental. Then
any add-on bonuses are added, each can be bought up
to three times. Sometimes, a rote will require special
abilities to use, such as Do or knowledge of a language.
After being learned, the rote can be changed by the
Mage putting in similar effort. To change a rote requires
half of the rote points spent to get the rote
(rounded up) plus the difference between the cost of the
original rote and the new rote.
Example
To illustrate this, as an example, a fairly typical Hermetic
rote, lightning bolt.
Creo Fulmen
Compatible Paradigms: Turning the Keys to Reality,
A Mechanistic Cosmos
Compatible Practices: High Ritual Magick,
Elementalism
Compatible Instruments: Circles and Designs,
Wands and Staves, True Names, Elements
Spheres: Forces •••, Prime ••
Dice Pool: Arete + Forces
Description: This rote involves most of the work
being done up front. The Mage must first find wood
from an oak tree that has been split by lightning. Then,
a piece of that wood is laid inside of a ritual circle while
the True Name of the Angel of Lightning, Baraqiel is
recited as part of a complex ritual. Once this is done,
the wood is carved by the Mage who will use it into a
wand. In the moment, the Mage needs merely to point
the want at their target and speak the phrase "Creo
Fulmen" to create the lightning. This rote does two dice
per success devoted to damage on the Arete + Forces roll
plus one additional die of aggravated damage and must
devote one success per target. The damage is divided
evenly among the targets.
This rote has Backlash Resistance • and Improved
Casting • and Strengthened •.
This rote costs 17 rote points to learn for a Mage with
appropriate instruments.
Later, say the Mage realizes that their opponents tend
to have countermagick. Also, they would like to be able
to target people who they don't have line of sight with.
The new version of the rote adds Correspondence ••
and Penetration •. To upgrade the rote requires 9 rote
points from half of the original cost, plus 2 for the Correspondence
and 3 more for Penetration, giving a cost
of 14, or just under 3 XP.
202 Enlightened Grimoire
Index of Rotes
Index of Rotes
108 Plum Blossoms ............... 60
Aai-ab, "Washing the Heart" 124
Abh-t-ab, "Biting the Heart" 183
Abundance ............................ 84
Accelerate Time .................. 145
Accelerated Aging ................. 71
Accidental Overdose ............. 68
Ace of Diamonds .................. 13
Actively Actuarial .................. 13
Adad ...................................... 26
Adaptation .......................... 175
Adaptive Chemistry .............. 68
Adder's Tongue ................... 105
Adjust Major Anomalies ....... 76
Adjust Minor Anomalies ...... 76
Adrenal Rush ...................... 175
Advanced Therapies ............ 176
Affix Gauntlet ..................... 160
Agama Te Sojourn .............. 108
Agrivelopment ..................... 167
'Ahiu Nalu (Rogue Wave) ..... 44
AI (Artificial Intelligence) ..... 23
Akua Kumu Haka (Guided
Fireball) ............................. 40
Ala Wai (Short Waters) ...... 100
Alarm System ...................... 123
All Tomorrow's Parties ......... 29
Allergic Reaction ................... 71
Alley Vanish ........................ 110
Alloy ...................................... 81
Alter Paradigm .................... 193
Alter Simple Creature ......... 167
Alter Small Sequence .......... 167
Alter State .............................. 81
Alter Weight .......................... 81
Amon Maat, "Hidden Justice"
......................................... 102
An Hour in Hellfire ............ 145
An Uncompromising
Commitment to Excellence
......................................... 189
Ana'ana (The Death Prayer) . 71
Analyze Substance ................. 84
Anger in the Land ................. 37
Animal Form ....................... 171
Animal Possession ............... 188
Animal Riding ..................... 188
Animal Shift ........................ 171
Ansu Ishten............................ 10
Antiquing ............................... 90
Anunnaku .............................. 30
Apathy .................................. 181
Aphrodite's Blessing .............. 73
Apportation ........................... 84
Ap-Sobk, "Last Judgment of
Sobk" ................................ 156
Aquatic Survival .................. 115
Arashi-Waza ........................... 60
Arc .......................................... 39
Area Scan ............................... 33
Ariadne's Thread ................. 143
Arrest the Flight of Arrows ... 57
Assess Affinity ...................... 124
Astral Projection .................. 101
At Ease ................................. 139
Atitsiak ................................. 134
Attach Biomechanism ......... 167
Audience of Inanna ............... 23
Audio Tap ............................ 122
Augment Simple Lifeform .. 168
Auric Trail ............................. 33
Auspicious Dialogues .......... 105
Avatar Form ......................... 171
Awaken Flame ....................... 40
Awaken the Inanimate .......... 90
Awaken the Sleeping Earth ... 48
Babel .................................... 105
Back Door Parole ................ 165
Back to the Earth ................... 92
Balance the Scales .................... 9
Balancing the Furies .............. 53
Balefire ................................... 40
Ball of Abysmal Flames ......... 40
Bambolai ................................ 91
Banish Elemental ................... 37
Banishing Blessing ................. 10
Baptism Rune ........................ 10
Battery Man ......................... 176
Battle Rune ............................ 59
Be Cool ................................ 184
Beads on a String .................. 88
Beginner's Luck ..................... 10
Behavior Modification Device
......................................... 191
Being Invisible ..................... 140
Berate the Demon ................. 91
Betrayal of the Burning Arrow
........................................... 40
Better Body .......................... 176
Bewitchment ....................... 183
Binding Oath ........................ 29
Binding Song ....................... 153
Biochemical Regulation ...... 176
Bio-Luminescence ............... 177
Biometric Holographic
Recreation ......................... 30
Black Card/Little Black Box. 21
Blade Sense............................ 62
Bless the Heavenly Flower .... 10
Blight of Aging ...................... 71
Blight/Farmer's Favor ............. 9
Blindside .............................. 148
Blood for the Gods ............... 54
Blood from a Stone ............. 131
Blood of the Sacred King ...... 54
Bloodsight ............................. 67
Body of Light ......................... 47
Body of the Spirit ................ 116
Bond of Blood ....................... 50
Bone Twisting Palm .............. 71
Book of Whispers ................. 25
Boot Buzzer ........................... 20
Bottle of Djinn .................... 153
Bottle of Smoke..................... 88
Brain Boost .......................... 177
Brand (the Rawhide Rote) .... 17
Branding .............................. 184
Branding the Heart ............... 77
Breach Alien Gauntlet ........ 106
Breach Gauntlet Undetectably
......................................... 111
Breach the Gauntlet ............ 112
Break the Dreamshell ......... 112
Bridge of Blood ................... 112
Brittle Bones ........................ 168
204 Enlightened Grimoire
Bubble of Reality................. 148
Bug Off ................................ 188
Bullet Catch ........................... 60
Bum a Dollar From the
Universe ............................. 11
Burn Out ................................ 20
Burn-Out ................................ 87
Buzz ........................................ 77
Buzzwords ............................... 11
Caesar's Due .......................... 11
Caffeine Plus .......................... 91
Calculate Kinematics .......... 119
Call Forth the Forgotten .... 156
Call Lightning ........................ 39
Call Spirit ............................ 157
Call the Dreamborn Sibling 157
Calling the Wind Lords ......... 44
Capiche? .............................. 183
Captain's Treasure ................. 22
Celestial Prediction ................ 30
Chain ................................... 143
Chain of Whispers .............. 103
Chainbreaker Rune ............... 87
Chakra Influence ................ 177
Change the Resonance .......... 53
Chaos Butterfly ...................... 26
Charm Rune ....................... 183
Check the Corners ................. 33
Checklist ................................ 95
Chiminage Rune ................. 151
Chirurgeon ............................. 73
Chronopathy .......................... 30
Cinnabar Tears ...................... 68
Circe's Enchantment .......... 171
Circle of Binding ................ 154
Circle Ward......................... 160
Cloak of Shadows ............... 140
Clone ................................... 169
Cloning ............................... 169
Cloud Cover .......................... 44
Coerce Spiri ........................ 154
Coffin for a Fisher .............. 131
Cold Water's Blessing ............ 47
Co-Location......................... 144
Comp Me ............................ 185
Compel the Unseen ............ 154
Conclave Wellness Works ..... 67
Conference Call .................. 144
Confusing Apishtiss ............... 95
Conjure the Jade Warrior ... 157
Consecration ......................... 99
Consuming Thought ........... 193
Contemplation ...................... 27
Contingent Effect .................. 47
Convert Node to Tass ........... 50
Cool Glamour ..................... 185
Coordinated Fire ................... 59
Coordination ....................... 189
Core Dump ........................... 22
Correspondence Sensing....... 33
Corrupt Text ........................ 106
Counterintelligence ............. 160
Counter-Irritant ..................... 77
Counterspell Rune ................ 47
Courtesan's Draught/Blessed
Heir .................................. 169
Craft Biomechanism ............. 88
Craft Tome .......................... 106
Cram .................................... 128
Cram Session ....................... 124
Create Drone ....................... 193
Create Fetish .......................... 88
Create Gauntlet ................... 106
Create Horizon Realm
Construct ......................... 106
Create Mind ........................ 193
Create Talen .......................... 89
Create Talismans and Artifacts
........................................... 89
Create Virtual Object/Create
Daemon ............................. 17
Crime and Consequence ...... 30
Crocodile Blood .................. 177
Crowd Surfing ....................... 25
Crowdsourced Combat ......... 57
Cry of Distress ..................... 103
Cuicuilco's Demise ................ 39
Cup of Itz ............................... 55
Cup of Joe .............................. 50
Current Metering ................ 122
Curse of Macha ..................... 77
Curse of the Mayfly ............... 72
Cycle of the Five Agents ........ 37
Cynical Eye .......................... 120
Cypher Wheel ..................... 107
Daedalean Labyrinth ........... 148
Daedalus Gateway ............... 110
Daedalus's Wings ................ 116
Danse Macabre ............ 120, 131
Dark Streets ......................... 140
Darksight ............................. 122
Dash and a Pinch ...................85
Deadaim .................................63
Death Curse ...........................13
Death Ray ...............................63
Death Song .......................... 103
Death Wish ............................13
Death's Passage ................... 109
Deceive the Eyes .................. 165
Deduction ........................... 125
Deep Umbra Travel ............ 113
Deep Universe Survival ...... 113
Defense Screen Versus Higher
Lifeforms ......................... 160
Defense Screen Versus Lower
Lifeforms ......................... 160
Degrade Order .......................95
Degree Absolute .....................77
Deity Form .......................... 171
Delay Paradox ........................52
Delion's Haze ...................... 190
Delirium .............................. 191
Deprocessing ....................... 194
Destroy Structures ..................95
Destroy Thought ................. 190
Destructive Genegineering ....72
Destructive Paranoia ........... 194
Detect Lie ............................ 120
Detect Mental Anomalies ......67
Detect Possession ................ 155
Detect Reality Deviation ..... 126
Detect the Dream Gateway . 113
Devouring Gullet of Flame ....40
Dialectic............................... 127
Digital Disruption ..................17
Dim Mak ............................. 120
Dimension Bomb................ 151
Dingo's Touch ..................... 102
Dionysus's Gift .................... 171
Discharge Static ......................39
Disintegrator ..........................95
Disk-Doctor ............................22
Distant Sight ..........................34
Distill the Azoth Elixir ...........73
Distort Time ........................ 146
Divert Prime Force .................48
Divided Sight .........................34
Uncanny Influence 205
Divinations ............................ 31
Divine Aura ......................... 189
DMSO ................................... 69
Doe's Password ...................... 17
Dogon Divination ................. 27
Don't Cross the Streams ....... 31
Dontcme .............................. 139
Dousing ................................. 44
Download Specialization .... 128
Downvote ............................ 138
Downward Spiral ................ 190
Dowsing ................................. 44
Dragon Fist ............................ 61
Dragonstorm ......................... 41
Drahma Protector ............... 154
Drain Node ........................... 48
Drain Tass ............................. 50
Dream Drama ..................... 190
Dream Locus ....................... 113
Dream Play .......................... 190
Dreamborn Rising .............. 157
Dreamcry ............................. 103
Dreamer's Shroud from Day140
Dreamline ............................ 103
Dreamquest ......................... 113
DRM ...................................... 22
Drug Enhancement............... 69
Drums of Elemental Fire .... 157
Dukhamarana Moksa (Release
of Agonizing Death) .......... 77
Eagle Eye ............................. 119
Eagle Form .......................... 171
Ear of Dionysus ................... 123
Ease of Passage ...................... 74
Eavesdropper ......................... 25
Ebon Dragon's Tide .............. 95
Economic Warfare ................ 51
Eight Drunken Hsien ........... 61
Electrical Chaos .................... 40
Embracing the Earth Mother 39
Emit Beam-Ray ...................... 63
Empathic Projection ........... 185
Enchant Life .......................... 48
Enchant Weapon .................. 89
Encode ................................... 18
Encrypt .................................. 22
Encrypt Thoughts ............... 138
Endless Parchment ................ 77
Energy Shield ...................... 140
Energy Transformation ......... 18
Ensure the Endless Sleep .... 154
Enter the Sauna ................... 157
Epiphany of the Muse ........... 11
Erode Matter .......................... 87
Establish and Exchange
Temporal Event Fields .... 146
Establish Local Temporal Event
Field ................................. 146
Eternal Discipline of the Family
......................................... 135
Eternal Flame......................... 41
Etheric Shielding ................. 160
Evaluate Fourth Dimensional
Fabric ............................... 128
Evaluation .............................. 84
Exalted Desire ...................... 183
Examine Humors .................. 67
Exorcism .............................. 154
Exorcism Song ..................... 154
Exotic Matter ......................... 85
Exotic Matter - Antimatter .... 85
Exotic Matter - Primium ........ 85
Experience Substance ............ 69
False Witness ....................... 191
Fate Mark ............................... 29
Fatherless Birth .................... 169
Feedback ................................ 18
Fetter Ball............................. 131
Fiat Lux .................................. 43
Field of Yin .......................... 137
Fifteen Minutes ................... 189
Filter All-Space ....................... 34
Filter'd Lantern-Light ............ 43
Find Reality Flaws ............... 127
Find the Guilty .................... 125
Find the Lost ......................... 28
Find the Sun ........................ 119
Fire Rune ............................... 41
Fits Like a Glove .................... 89
Flames of Purification ........... 52
Flash ....................................... 43
Flesh Toys ............................ 169
Flower Gesture .................... 103
Fluids of Death ...................... 72
Flying Dragon Kick ................ 61
Focus of the Blow .................. 61
Followme ............................. 125
Footbind ................................ 51
FOR NEXT Loop .................. 20
Forecasting ............................ 31
Format Space ....................... 115
Fortify Gauntlet .................. 160
Fount of Paradise .................. 51
Fractal Encryption ................. 18
Fragments of Dream ........... 124
Frame Up ............................ 191
Free Conjunction ................ 111
Free the Mad Howlers......... 158
Friction Curse ....................... 41
Fuck Off/Fuck Off and Die . 72
Gabriel's Embrace ................. 41
Games of Luck ...................... 11
Gateway Transport .............. 113
Gatha ................................... 185
Gauntlet Prison ................... 154
Geasa ..................................... 29
Gene Scan ........................... 123
General Anesthesia ............... 77
Genetic Mastery .................. 170
Genetic Pattern Matching .. 168
Genetics Scan ...................... 123
Genome Mapping ............... 123
Geometric Jars ....................... 34
Ghayba (Occultation or
"Unbeingness") ................ 139
Ghost Rune ......................... 135
Ghost-Burning ..................... 132
Gift of Prana.......................... 79
Gilgul ..................................... 72
Glorious Is The Temple ........ 49
Glorious Sword of Heaven ... 43
Go Ti Ta .............................. 177
Goanna's Hiding ................. 137
Going Under the Cloak ...... 109
Going Viral.......................... 189
Golden Gunman ................... 64
Good Eatin'/Cleanse the Clown
........................................... 69
Gorningstakkr ....................... 89
Graft Alien Bio-Matter Between
Animals ........................... 168
Graft Alien Bio-Matter to
Humans ........................... 168
Grand Salvo........................... 64
Grand Style ......................... 185
Graphic Transmission .......... 22
Green Thumb ..................... 168
206 Enlightened Grimoire
Gremlins ............................. 158
Guncotton's Blessing ............. 82
Hacker's Glance ..................... 22
Hail of Bullets ........................ 59
Hajjaj ...................................... 74
Hallmark ............................. 127
Halt the Nagloper ............... 154
Hands of Death ...................... 61
Hardware Entry ...................... 19
Heal Self ................................. 74
Heal Simple Creature ............ 74
Healer Rune ........................... 74
Healing Figurine .................... 74
Healing Slumber .................... 74
Healthy Skepticism ................ 53
Hear and Obey .................... 135
Heart for Huitzilopochtli ....... 55
Heart Murmurs ...................... 73
Heart's Blood ......................... 55
Heat Seeking .......................... 34
Heat Trace .............................. 35
Heaven's Tumbling Pebbles 111
Heenalu (Wave Walking) ...... 44
Hellfire ................................ 151
Help Rune .............................. 76
Hepatoscopy ........................... 31
Here Kitty, Kitty .................. 158
Hermes Portal ..................... 111
Hermes' Brand ....................... 42
Hersh, "To be Patient" ........ 127
Hidden Features .................... 82
Hidden Switch .................... 124
High Memory ...................... 191
High Rhetoric ..................... 185
High-Definition...................... 25
Higher Lifeform Grafting and
Recombination ............... 168
Holdout Weapon ................... 64
Holes in the Desert ............. 124
Holographic Projector ........ 191
Holopuni'au'nei .................. 113
Holy Stroke ............................ 53
Holy Union ......................... 172
Hoodoo Man's Heartbeat ... 183
Hope's Birth ........................ 185
Horsemaster's Bidding ........ 188
Hot-Shotting .......................... 64
Hua To's Cure ........................ 79
Huli Shjalmr ("Helmet of
Hiding") ........................... 140
Hymn of Beatific Harmony ... 51
Hypernarrative Influence .... 194
I Know Your Cousin ........... 125
Idealism ................................ 120
IFF ........................................ 191
Ignis ........................................ 42
Imaginary Friend ................. 191
Imbue Flesh ......................... 154
Impulse Purchase ................. 194
Incitation ............................. 185
Industry .................................. 86
Inferno ................................... 42
Infidel's Laughter ................... 57
Infiltration ........................... 102
Information Glut ................. 119
Information Overload ......... 119
Information Superhighway ... 19
Initiation .............................. 185
Inquisitor ............................. 127
Inscribe Amulet ..................... 86
Instant Measurement .......... 124
Instant Offline ....................... 19
Intel ........................................ 22
Internal Clock ..................... 128
Internal Obligation ............. 194
Internalize Ephemeral Object
......................................... 102
Iron Avatar .......................... 172
Iron Snake ............................. 62
Ishin Den Shin .................... 125
Istar ........................................ 28
Jabarut (The Darwishim Battle
Trance) ............................... 63
Jack in the Green ................. 158
Jaguar Cloak ........................ 173
Jivitamarana (Death in Life)
Yoga ................................. 165
Jolt .......................................... 96
Joyride .................................... 99
Jung's Trick ............................ 31
Jury Rig .................................. 86
Karmic Inversion ................. 113
Karoshi ................................. 189
Kaumaha (Sacrifice) ............... 55
Kinetic Push........................... 96
Kispu .................................... 134
Kiss of the Virtuous Maiden . 84
Knock Out .............................78
Kohl Sight ........................... 129
Kuoha (The Passion Prayer) 183
Lambs to the Slaughter ..........55
Landscape of the Mind ....... 120
Laser Enhancement ...............43
Laser Production ....................43
Laserblast ................................64
Lay of the Land ................... 120
Laying on of Hands ...............28
Leap Beyond ........................ 102
Leap Sideways ..................... 113
Learn-It ...................................14
Lecherous Kiss .................... 184
Legion's Life ...........................59
LERMUization .................... 173
Lesser Binding of Spirits ..... 155
Lesser Shapechanging ......... 173
Levitation Walk .................. 116
Leying of the Line ..................49
Lichedom ............................ 134
Life Scan .............................. 123
Life Sense ............................ 123
Liftoff ................................... 115
Lighting the Path ...................28
Lightning Gateway .................40
Like Clockwork ......................91
Limited Grafting and
Recombination ............... 168
Lip Reading ......................... 125
Liquor's Calling ................... 109
Little Good Death ..................73
Living Bridge ....................... 155
Lobotomize.............................96
Locate Disorder and Weakness
......................................... 121
Locate Quintessence Flow .....49
Long Fist .................................61
Long-Distance Universal
Travel/Puncture Reality
Barrier ............................. 113
Long-Range Eyes ....................31
Lore Rune ........................... 127
Lotus Bloom ...........................42
Love Me, Love Me .............. 166
Loving Cup ......................... 186
Lower Lifeform Manipulation
......................................... 168
Luck Be a Lady Tonight.........12
Uncanny Influence 207
Luck Blessing/Curse ................9
Luck of the Lotus/The Crippled
Lotus .................................. 10
Lucky Blow ............................ 57
Lull the Waking Dreamborn
......................................... 155
Luster ..................................... 92
Machine God ........................ 84
Magdeline's Dynamic Mind 190
Magic Bullet .......................... 64
Magic Circle ........................ 160
Mahu (Steam) ........................ 44
Maikai (The Seaward Pull) .. 194
Maintain Device .................... 91
Major Environmental
Alteration ........................ 168
Major Geas ............................ 29
Manchurian Candidate ...... 194
Manipulate Memories ......... 192
Manipulate Memory ........... 192
Manipulate Time Fragment .. 31
Manufacture Enlightened Drugs
........................................... 69
Map the True Way ................ 35
Marching Orders ................... 59
Mark of the Beast ................ 129
Masquerade to Adulthood .... 12
Massage Therapy ................... 74
Master's Enchantment .......... 48
Matter Association ................ 82
Matter-Energy Converter ...... 53
Maze of the Minotaur ......... 148
Mele Lapa'au ....................... 178
Melt and Reform ................... 83
Memento Mori ...................... 90
Mental Interface .................... 22
Mercury's Bridge ................. 111
Merlin's Ride ....................... 100
Mershakushtu Qurdu ........... 96
Metabolic Mastery ................. 69
Midnight O ........................... 55
Midwife's Blessing ................. 12
Mind Empowerment........... 126
Mind of the Ant Hill ............ 60
Mind Rune .......................... 194
Mindfulness of Wrong Thought
......................................... 126
Mindscreen .......................... 137
Minor Environmental
Alteration ......................... 168
Minor Geas ............................ 29
Mirrorshades ........................ 127
Mokupuni Palahalaha Wiki
(Coral Island Bloom)....... 168
Mold Tree ............................ 169
Monarch's Friend ................ 124
Monitor Communications .... 26
Mono Kahea 'Ai (Shark Call)
......................................... 188
Mood Swing/Communion . 186
Morpheus's Kiss ................... 194
Motivational Speaking......... 186
Move Along ......................... 138
Move to Clone ..................... 192
Moving the World Walls..... 114
Mukashuan ............................ 75
Multi-tasking ........................ 178
Mutate Ephemera .................. 96
Mutate Form ........................ 174
Na Kua's Gift ......................... 87
Namburbu ............................. 10
Nanotech Integration .......... 178
Navigation ............................ 116
Nearest and Dearest .............. 26
Neon-Mail ............................ 107
Nervous Control .................. 194
Nick of Time ........................ 146
Night Battle ........................... 96
Nightmare Dance ................ 190
Nitrogen Narcosis ................ 115
No Surrender ......................... 38
Nobody Dies in Vegas ........... 12
Node Raider .......................... 49
Node Spike ............................ 54
No-Doz ................................. 129
No-Mind .............................. 126
Non-Descript ....................... 139
Nonlinear Prediction ............. 31
Nostalgia .............................. 192
Nuzzlings .............................. 159
O'Doul's Ingeniae ................. 87
Oak of Sanguine Root ......... 170
Oathbreaker's Lash .............. 121
Obsidian Steel ....................... 91
Occlude the Seal of Power .... 54
Olive Branch ........................ 181
One With Beasts ................. 174
Online Virus Transmitter
Program ............................. 19
Open/Close Window ........... 35
Organize .............................. 121
Orgone Accumulator ............ 54
Our Enemies are Delicious . 178
Override Signal ................... 103
Overwrite ............................... 19
Painting the War Dance ..... 191
Paradox Ward ....................... 53
Parallax .................................. 20
Parma Magica ........................ 48
Pass Calmly ......................... 181
Pass for Normal ................... 139
Pass the Key ......................... 102
Passing ................................. 137
Pathfinding .......................... 100
Pathos .................................. 126
Pattern Store ....................... 123
Patterns of the Long Count 127
Peace of Buddha ................. 181
Peace Rune .......................... 182
Peeping Tom ......................... 31
Pele Wai'ula (Pele's Blood).... 39
Pele's Wrath .......................... 39
Penance for the Sicarii .......... 53
Penny Dreadful's Bright New
Penny ................................. 91
Perfect Fuse ......................... 143
Perfect Metamorphosis ....... 174
Perfect Time ........................ 128
Perfect Timing ..................... 128
Perfection of the Tools ......... 84
Perfection of the True Form . 92
Perpetual Motion .................. 92
Persephone's Nectar .............. 69
Persona ................................ 166
Personal Assistant Software .. 23
Personal Compression ........ 169
Petals of Love ...................... 186
Phlogiston Manipulation ...... 42
Phlogiston Phlux ................... 42
Phone Tap ............................. 26
Phosphoric Marker ............. 169
Physical Exorcism ................ 155
Physiological Emotion Control
......................................... 186
Physiological Rule ................. 76
Pickpocket ............................. 85
208 Enlightened Grimoire
Piercing Cry ............................ 61
Pilot Skyrigger ..................... 116
PIN Drop ............................... 26
Pirated Media Blitz ............. 103
Pixie Lead ............................ 100
Planned Projection ................ 31
Plausible Denial .................. 192
Play Back ................................ 32
Point-to-Point Narrow-Band
Transmission ................... 104
Polyappearance ................... 144
Polysorbate ............................. 69
Pop Goes the Weasel ............. 42
Positive Thinking ................ 126
Positronic Brain .................. 178
Possess Flame ......................... 42
Possession ............................ 195
Postcognition ......................... 32
Prayer of Healing Revelation . 68
Presentation of the Passage Stick
......................................... 109
Pretty-Shinies .......................... 90
Primal Credit Rating ............. 49
Primal Dread ....................... 183
Primal Infusion ...................... 51
Primal Net .............................. 52
Prime Location ....................... 49
Probe Thoughts................... 193
Processing ............................ 195
Programmed Event ................ 48
Programming....................... 195
Prolong Pleasure/Pain ........... 78
Proof against Immolation ...... 42
Protection of the Golden Race
......................................... 159
Protection Song .................. 161
Psychiatric Compounds ......... 87
Psychic Impression ................. 54
Psychic Interface .................... 23
Psychic Intrusion................. 195
Psychic Sterilization ............ 161
Psychological Breaking Point
......................................... 126
Psychometry ........................... 32
Public Posting ..................... 104
Pulse of the Electro-Stream.... 40
Purge ....................................... 70
Purge Thought Crime ......... 195
Purging the System ................ 70
Purify ...................................... 70
Purifying Step ........................ 62
Pygmalion's Paradigm .......... 159
Qayaq's Fish ......................... 174
Quahuitl .............................. 161
Quantify Energy .................. 123
Quantum Interference
Shielding .......................... 161
Quantum Temporal Travel . 146
Quietsong .............................. 76
Quintessence Blast ................ 53
Quo Vadis? (Whither Goest
Thou?) ................................ 32
Radiate Prime Energy ............ 52
Random Impulse ................. 195
Rapid Healing ........................ 75
Rat's Rage/Lost Cousin ...... 182
Ratstorm .............................. 188
Ravensong ............................ 105
Read the Lightning ................ 28
Read the Soul ...................... 126
Reading the Umbral Skein ... 32
Reanimation ........................ 135
Recant .................................. 195
Recharge Device .................... 52
Recharge Gift ......................... 52
Reconstruct Gauntlet .......... 161
Red Button ............................ 20
Re-education Mode ............. 195
Reflecting Bane ...................... 12
Remembrance ...................... 100
Remote Access ....................... 22
Remote Piloting Override ... 100
Remote Programming ........... 23
Repeating Blow ...................... 62
Repel the Hungry Dead ...... 162
Repel the Kuei ..................... 162
Restrict Sector........................ 20
Return to Darkness ............. 140
Reverie ................................. 114
Ricochet ................................. 65
Riding the Railroad ............. 111
Right-Click ........................... 126
Righteous Fist ........................ 62
Ring of Truth....................... 121
Rip the Man-Body ................. 73
Ripple Through Space ........... 85
Rival's Curse .......................... 14
Rokea'ole.............................. 174
Rolling Hands ........................62
Romance ............................. 184
Rooftop Leap ...................... 116
Rouge .................................. 166
Rouse the Dragon ..................38
Rubbing of Bones ..................78
Rudra's Bow ...........................65
Running Scenarios .................32
Sabotage .................................88
Safe Little World ................. 162
Safecracker .......................... 102
Salmon of Wisdom ................32
Salt on the Earth ................. 162
Samas ......................................28
Sanitize Evidence ...................88
Satan's Song ........................ 159
Scan Life Signs .................... 124
Scan Memories .................... 193
Scan Non-Local Universe ......35
Scent of Control ................. 187
Schedule of Heaven ............ 114
Screech of the Owl .................62
Scrying ....................................35
Sculpture ................................83
Search Engine ........................28
Secret Labyrinth .................. 162
Secret Rune ............................29
Secure the Scene ................. 138
Sedna's Blessing................... 188
See no Evil ........................... 127
See the Light ....................... 195
See the Soul's Burn ............. 122
Seeds of Gold .........................92
Seizing the Forgotten .............35
Selective Edit ....................... 139
Self Possession ..................... 196
Self-Sacrifice ...........................55
Semi Auto CAD CAM ..........83
Semiotic Communication .. 105
Sense Connection ............... 120
Sense Corruption ................ 122
Sense Node.............................50
Sense Quintessence ................52
Sense the Demon's Weakness
......................................... 155
Sense the Dreamsong ......... 109
Sense the Echo of the Dragon
............................................58
Sense the Fleeting Moment 128
Uncanny Influence 209
Sense the Nagloper ............. 156
Sequencing .......................... 124
Serene Temple ...................... 75
Serenity of the Stone ........... 146
Shadow Project .................... 140
Shadow Sight ....................... 132
Shadows in the Mist............ 156
Sha'ir's Sentence .................... 14
Shaking Tent ....................... 159
Shaman's Craft ...................... 92
Shameful Outburst ............. 187
Shango's Grave ...................... 96
Shapechange Curse ............. 174
Shapeshifter Prison ............. 174
Shapeshifting ....................... 175
Sharing the Outsider's Gaze 151
Shed the Years ..................... 147
Shelter from the Storm ....... 133
Shield ................................... 139
Shield of the Soul ............... 114
Shih-Huang-Ti's Marvelous
Game ................................. 42
Shinobijutsu ........................ 141
Shishipat's Favor ................... 13
Shortcut ............................... 101
Show of Force ..................... 183
Shuttle ................................. 111
Sidestep Time ...................... 147
Silent Promise of the Spring
Tortoise ............................. 28
Simon's Petition .................. 145
Simple Biochemical
Manipulation .................. 178
Simple Transmutation .......... 93
Simulate Inborn Errors of
Metabolism........................ 73
Sin .......................................... 28
Sing Down the Rain ............. 45
Sing the Dreaming Earth .... 109
Sing to the Whales .............. 188
Singularity ........................... 149
Sinner's Redemption .......... 196
Sjonhverfing ("Deceiving of the
Sight") .............................. 139
Slay Machine ......................... 88
Slow Time ........................... 147
Smart Drink ........................ 129
Smoke Screen ...................... 141
Smoke-bomb Trick .............. 141
Smoker's Timing .................. 143
Sneaking Shadow .................. 96
Social Conditioning ............ 196
Social Science ...................... 187
Song of Orpheus ................. 134
Songline Soaring .................. 109
Songline Walking ................ 110
Songs of Future Days ............. 33
Soothe the Dead .................. 133
Soul Cloak ........................... 139
Soul Shaping ........................ 196
Soul-Forging ......................... 133
Sound/Thought Transfer ... 104
Sousveillance ........................ 120
Sparrow's Fall ........................ 29
Spatial Mutations ................ 149
Spatial Sheath ........................ 85
Speaking in Tongues ........... 105
Spear of my Fathers ............... 87
Spearcatcher Rune ................. 58
Spinning Thread .................... 52
Spirit Cloak.......................... 114
Spirit Eating ......................... 152
Spirit Journey ....................... 114
Spirit Pilgrimage .................... 53
Spirit Roster ......................... 159
Spirit Sight ........................... 128
Spirit Slaying ........................ 152
Spirit Wall ........................... 162
Spirit Warding ..................... 162
Spirit Wounder ..................... 62
Spirit Wounding ................. 152
Spiritual Persuasion ............. 153
Splitting a Cuirass ................. 63
Spoiling .................................. 14
Spontaneous Generation .... 170
Spontaneous Material
Construction ..................... 87
Spot the Man ....................... 127
Spy's Stigmata ........................ 73
Squaring the Circle ............... 26
St. Vitus's Kiss ..................... 147
Stalking the Void ................... 35
Statistical Mechanics ............. 15
Stay the God's Hand.............. 75
Stepping Sideways ............... 114
Stoicism ................................ 182
Stop-Gap Resurrection .......... 79
Storm of Crows ................... 175
Storm Rune ........................... 45
Storm Watch ....................... 114
Strains of Laughter, Sleep and
Sorrow ............................. 187
Strategic Inefficiency Analysis33
Strategy .................................. 58
Straw Into Gold .................... 93
Strength of the Earth .......... 178
Subliminal Impulse ............. 104
Subliminal Transmission .... 104
Subtle Persuasion ................ 187
Sucking Gate ....................... 114
Sugar Magnolias .................... 33
Summon Fog ....................... 141
Summon Paradox Spirit ..... 159
Summon the Earthly Gods . 159
Summon Volva ................... 135
Summon Weapon ................. 85
Supporting the Brain .......... 170
Sure Footing ........................ 116
Surpu ..................................... 76
Surveillance ........................... 26
Survivor's Charm ................ 179
Sustenance Pill ...................... 70
Swordbreaker Rune .............. 63
Symphony of the Soul ......... 147
Synchronize Watches .......... 144
System Crash ......................... 21
System Havoc ........................ 21
Tag ......................................... 54
Taking Poison for the Enemy 70
Taliesin's Song ..................... 184
Talisman Tattoos .................. 90
Talisman Transmogrification 90
Talons .................................. 179
Tamping ................................ 65
Tap Node............................... 50
Tapping the Signal ................ 83
Targeting Computation ........ 58
TechnoVision ........................ 20
Telekinesis ............................. 97
Teleoperate .......................... 100
Telepathy ............................. 105
Telescreen .............................. 26
Telltale ................................. 162
Temper Viasilicos ................ 105
Tempest in a Teapot ............. 45
Temple Gongs ..................... 197
Temple Pillars........................ 87
210 Enlightened Grimoire
Tension .................................. 65
Terminal Sanitization ............ 50
That Rascal Puff ..................... 21
The Argument of Princes ... 183
The Aura Adamantium ......... 90
The Ball Game ....................... 54
The Barrel of Iskander ........ 115
The Blissful Disciple ........... 193
The Branding Rote ................ 71
The Burning Lotus ................ 50
The Curse of Consequences . 77
The Endless Pool ................ 110
The Final Blow ....................... 61
The Foundling .................... 169
The Frenzy of the Spinning
Wheels............................. 146
The Gate of Culsu .............. 109
The Geometry of Trade ......... 31
The Golden Apple .............. 185
The Golden Lion ................... 92
The Gutter View ................. 129
The Hand of the Siphoner .... 51
The Hero's Challenge ............ 62
The Holy Pentacles ............. 154
The Incredible Shrunken
Machine ............................. 82
The Key of Vanth ............... 135
The Look/The Word .......... 186
The Master's Hand .............. 161
The Moment that Stretches 146
The Notorious Vampiric Lawn
Chair ............................... 174
The Poison Maiden ............... 69
The Rush ................................ 52
The Scented Handkerchief .... 33
The Seven Golden Swords of
the Tiger .......................... 162
The Seven-League Stride ..... 101
The Silent Circle ................. 141
The Spirit's Caress .............. 152
The Swift Lock ....................... 65
The Trip .............................. 190
The Weeping Willow.......... 175
Thick Skin ........................... 179
Thief in the Night ............... 103
Thorn Wall ......................... 171
Threefold Return ................... 10
Thunder Bridge................... 116
Thunder's Gauntlet ............ 105
Time Lock .............................. 37
Time Sense .......................... 128
Time Travel ......................... 147
Time Wards ......................... 162
Time Warp .......................... 147
Time's Tongue ..................... 106
Time-Motion Study ............... 59
Titan's Power ....................... 179
Tolerance ............................... 70
Tower of Babel/Speak In
Tongues ........................... 106
Tracking Device ..................... 26
Traffic Pulse ......................... 116
Trailblazing .......................... 114
Transephemeration Ray
Projector ............................ 83
Transfer Memories .............. 193
Transformers ......................... 84
Transmutation ....................... 93
Trauma................................... 76
Trauma Transmission ........... 76
Trickshot ................................ 65
True Form............................ 126
Tsuiho - The Fires of Heaven 43
Tulugaak's Harpoon .............. 88
Tumo ................................... 179
Tune In, Turn On, Drop Out
......................................... 147
Tune Psychic Radio ............. 123
Turkey Basting ....................... 78
Turning the Wheel of Ages ... 33
TWACI .................................. 39
Twisted Yarrow Stalks ......... 163
Ultimate Argument ............. 197
Umbral Visions ................... 115
Universal Travel .................. 115
Unleash Nanotech Destruction
........................................... 97
Unraveling the Text ............ 107
Unseen Arm .......................... 97
Unseen Nomenclature ........ 107
Untether .............................. 102
Utchatti, "The Two Divine Eyes"
......................................... 128
Uther's Butchered Visage .... 166
VAR ..................................... 116
Veil of Invisibility ................ 141
Vext ........................................ 15
View the Scattered Lotus Petals
............................................33
Virtual Lockpick ....................23
Virtual Talisman
Transmogrification ............20
Visionary Bloodletting ........ 159
Vitality ....................................92
Voice Across the Void ........ 132
Voice of the Jade Ancestors 132
Voidcast ............................... 111
Vulcan's Hammer ............... 175
Waipuilani (Waterspout) .......45
Waiting to Exhale ..................13
Walk to Too'ga .................... 134
Walking Chair .......................90
Walking on Water .............. 117
Walking the Open Path ...... 115
Wall of Mirrors ................... 163
War the Inner Sanctum ...... 163
Ward .................................... 163
Ward Rune .......................... 163
Warding Heads ................... 163
Warp-Spasm ........................ 175
Watch the Weaving ...............48
Watchdog ...............................90
Waters of the Well of Life .....79
Wayfarer's Reckoning ......... 100
Wearing the Bear Shirt ..........59
Weather Working ..................45
Weaver's Retribution .......... 155
Webcrawlers ...........................20
Weeping for Tammuz ............13
Welcoming the Jester .......... 197
We'll Get There .................. 100
Well, It Is Vegas .................. 140
Wellspring ..............................50
What Did You Say .............. 106
Whereami? .......................... 120
Wildfire ..................................43
Willful Binding ................... 197
Wind-Water Skein .................63
Wings of Icarus ................... 117
Wings of the Lasa ............... 109
Witch's Diplomacy ................71
Witch's Vengeance ................73
Witchwind .......................... 188
Wolf Form........................... 175
Workflow ............................ 189
Worm .................................. 193
Uncanny Influence 211
Wrath of God ....................... 59
Wrath of Heaven .................. 43
Writing on the Wall ........... 108
Wurnan Blessing ................... 13
Wyrd Visions ......................... 28
Yao Su Dragon Thunder ....... 38
Zeitgeist ................................ 160
Zen and the Art of Panhandling
......................................... 147
Zisurru ................................. 163
Twenty-Five Years of Magick
Over the last twenty-five years of Mage: The Ascension, spells have been scattered like
treasure through the pages of multiple books and supplements, adding depth and
texture to the World of Darkness. These small gems have given us peeks over the years
at how the Traditions, Technocracy and Crafts not only construct their effects, but how
a Mage's Paradigm works in the most practical sense.
Gathered in a Single Spellbook
Now, for the first time, every single rote ever published has been gathered into a single
Enlightened Grimoire, updated for Mage: The Ascension 20th Anniversary Edition's
rules and indexed to allow the player to go back and find the origins of every spell, rote
and procedure ever written in its original form. Here you will find everything from the
terrifying transformations of the Verbena to the mental manipulations of the New
World Order. Even those spells that can warp and damage a Mage's very soul…